WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY, MAY
13TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE REGULAR
MEETING OF AN URBAN PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL?
COMMISSIONER, I'M HERE MR.
WHITE HERE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
MR. ABRAMS HERE.
MR. ISH HERE.
MR. MILLS HERE.
MR. WEATHERBY HERE.
MR. ADAMS HERE.
YOU'RE NOT HERE.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ROACH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MBER DISH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
SAY I HE OPPOSED SEEING ON THE
MOTION CARRIES I HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE
MAY SIX TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MOVE
BY THE COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT
BE AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MINUTES PLEASE SAY
I HEREBY AND YOUR POST SEEING
NONE THE MOTION CARRIES WE'RE
GOING TO MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THIS EVENING
THE COMMISSION WILL DISCUSS
CHAPTER FIVE OF THE DRAFT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN SO WE CAN ONLY ASK THAT
YOU FOCUS ON THE COMMENTS ON
THAT PARTICULAR SECTION.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE AND ZOOM IN FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN AND THEN FOUR MEETING
EDEK NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS BY
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME ON ZUM
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE SO WE CAN HEAR
YOU CLEARLY AND FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE COMMENTS AND I
WILL ALSO MENTION THAT THIS IS
THE FINAL SESSION OF THIS ROUND
OF COMMENTS.
>> THIS IS ONE OUT OF THREE
FEEDBACK SESSIONS THAT WE HAVE
AND SO THAT THIS IS THE LAST
MEETING FOR THE FIRST ROUND
OF EDITS OF THIS DRAFT.
THERE WILL STILL BE TWO MORE
DRAFTS THAT WE WILL BE GOING
THROUGH PUBLICLY THAT YOU CAN
ATTEND EVENT AS WELL.
>> BUT THE PLANE IS NOT
SCHEDULED TO GO
TO THE CITY
COUNCIL UNTIL NOVEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT WITH THAT,
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
ALL RIGHT.
HELLO MY NAME IS FELIPE.
>> I LIVE IN FIVE TWENTY EIGHT
NORTH ST. AND I'D LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
AND SPECIFICALLY I THINK
THERE'S SOME LANGUAGE IN THE
PLAN RIGHT NOW THAT ASKS FOR A
SINGLE TRANSITION DISTRICT AND
I THINK THAT'S REALLY GOOD
LANGUAGE TO KEEP IN THE PLAN
AND THE REASON IS THE
PARTITIONED DISTRICTS THAT HAVE
BEEN FLOATED AROUND I THINK
COULD BE HARMFUL.
>> ONE OF THESE PARTITION
DISTRICTS WOULD BE A SORT
OF MESSY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
THAT WOULD GO ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF TOWN ON SOUTH INDUSTRIAL OR
ON FLAT ROAD OR CITY DRIVE.
>> I DON'T THINK THIS DISTRICT
WOULD BE BENEFICIAL BECAUSE
RIGHT NOW MESSY INDUSTRIAL USES
ARE NOT ALLOWED THERE.
BUT SENSITIVE LAND USES ARE
LIKE NURSING HOMES.
DAYCARE'S SCHOOLS AND THERE'S
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
DIRECTLY NEXT TO THESE AREAS.
SO I DON'T THINK A MESSY
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT WOULD BE
EQUITABLE OR SAFE.
>> ANOTHER FLOATED DISTRICT A
LITTLE SUB FLAVOR OF TRANSITION
IS SORT OF SHOPPING DISTRICT
WHERE GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL
IS REQUIRED AT LEAST ON EVERY
ARTERIAL STREET AND UNGLAMOROUS
USES LIKE STORAGE LOCKERS OR
REUSE CENTERS WOULD NOT BE
PERMITTED.
AND I DON'T THINK WE NEED A
SHOPPING DISTRICT EITHER
BECAUSE WALKABILITY IN A CITY
DOESN'T JUST MEAN WALKING TO
SHOPS.
>> IT ALSO MEANS WALKING TO
WORK OR IF THE DOCTOR'S OFFICE
OR YOUR STORAGE LOCKER OR THE
MECHANIC AND WHERE YOU DROP OFF
YOUR CAR AND WALK BACK.
>> SO I THINK WE DON'T NEED A
SHOPPING DISTRICT OR A MESSY
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
>> WHAT WE NEED IS A BROAD
MIXED USE DISTRICT WITH
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND
DESIGN STANDARDS TOO TO ENSURE
THAT NOBODY HARMS THEIR
NEIGHBOR WITH NUISANCES.
SO I THINK YOU WOULD HAVE THE
FULL SPECTRUM OF TOOLS WITH
THAT SINGLE DISTRICT FROM
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS OR TOTAL
PROHIBITION FOR USE.
IT'S LIKE OIL AND GAS DRILLING
WHICH ARE CURRENTLY BANNED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
>> SO I THINK A SINGLE MIXED
USE DISTRICT WITH PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS IS THE WAY TO GO AND
IF IN THAT PROCESS
OF BROADENING THE DISTRICTS
INTENT STATEMENT A LITTLE BIT
TO FIT THOSE USERS YOU FIND
THAT THE ONE DISTRICT IS
REDUNDANT WILL THEN REPLACE THE
DC ONE DISTRICT.
I THINK THAT'S THE ONLY
REASONABLE THING TO DO.
SO MIXED USE WITH PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS AND A SINGLE DISTRICT
IN TRANSITION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OH HI GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS D THAT ONE A GOLF.
I LIVE AT 225 MURRAY AVENUE I'M
A HOMEOWNER AND ALSO LIVE CAR
FREE I BIKE AND BUSCOMBE YEAR
ROUND.
I'M HERE TO ASK YOU TO NOT
LIMIT HEIGHT OR HOUSING TYPES
IN TRANSITION ZONES.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE FUTURE
HOLDS TASTES CHANGE TECHNOLOGY
CHANGES CLIMATE PRESSURES
CHANGE WHERE PEOPLE LIVE AND
HOW THEY GET AROUND.
IF WE PREEMPTIVELY CAP WHAT CAN
BE BUILT WE'RE LOCKING
OURSELVES INTO AN EXPENSIVE
INFLEXIBLE FUTURE.
>> HIGH RISES MAY NOT BE THE
RIGHT CHOICE EVERYWHERE BUT
BANNING THEM OUTRIGHT IS A
MISTAKE.
LET THE FUTURE MEET ITS OWN
DEMAND.
LET THE MARKET AT THE MOMENT
DECIDE WHAT TYPE OF HOUSING
MAKES SENSE AND REMEMBER
RENTERS ARE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO
USE ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORTATION
BIKING, WALKING, BUSSING.
>> IF YOU WANT A SUSTAINABLE
CAR LIGHT CITY YOU NEED TO MAKE
ROOM FOR THEM.
THIS MEANS MORE HOMES, NOT MORE
RESTRICTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M SHANNON.
I LIVE AT TWO EIGHT SEVEN ZERO
OAKDALE DRIVE AND I'M HERE TO
SHARE MY OVERALL CONTENT WITH
THE SKELETON OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THREE LAND
USE CATEGORIES THAT WE HAVE
TODAY.
I'D LIKE TO SUGGEST A FEW
ADDITIONAL DETAILS.
>> AS I MENTIONED BEFORE, I
DON'T THINK THE PARTITIONS
WITHIN EACH OF THESE DISTRICTS
IS PARTICULARLY HELPFUL AND I
WANT TO SUGGEST CREATING ZONING
DISTRICTS THAT ARE ONE TO ONE
WITH EACH OTHER AND USE
CATEGORIES OVERALL THIS JUST
KEEPS THINGS SIMPLE AND
FLEXIBLE AND HELPS STREAMLINE
REZONING DOWN THE LINE AND ALSO
PREVENTS US FROM MAKING COMPLEX
CUSTOM ZONES CATERING TO EACH
NEIGHBORHOOD INSTEAD, AS
SUGGESTED BY WILL, WE CAN USE
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND FORMS
EACH NEIGHBORHOOD BY APPLYING
THINGS LIKE STEP X AND
PERMITTING HEIGHT RELATIVE TO
DISTRICTS AROUND IT.
SO FOR EXAMPLE WE SHOULD ALLOW
HIGH RISES IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT WHERE IT'S NOT
ADJACENT TO SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING.
IN THIS CASE IT'S A WIN WIN.
IT ALLOWS DENSITY AND HELPS
PEOPLE TO LIVE CLOSER TO WHERE
THEY WORK OR GO TO SCHOOL BUT
ALSO IT HELPS PEOPLE WHO PREFER
THAT THEY SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS DON'T FEEL AS
MUCH PRESSURE FROM THOSE HIGH
RISES I'M SEEING SOME STICKERS
AROUND HERE TODAY WITH THOSE
LITTLE BUILDINGS, LITTLE HOMES
WITH THE HIGH ADJACENT TO IT
AND MAYBE THERE'S A FEAR
OF THAT OVERSHADOWING.
I WOULD THINK THAT MAYBE THAT
HELPS ASSUAGE SOME OF THAT FEAR
THEIR OVERALL BEING ABLE TO
APPLY THESE DIFFERENT
PRINCIPLES ACROSS THE
INDIVIDUAL CATEGORIES THAT WE
HAVE AND USE HELPS KEEPS THINGS
STREAMLINED BUT ALSO INCREASES
DENSITY AND ALLOWS US TO BUILD
FOR MORE INCLUSIVE.
>> VINOBA, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> HI MY NAME IS GOREV KOKANEE.
I'M ONE THREE NINE ABALONES
DRIVE.
I WANT TO BE TODAY EXCITED
ABOUT THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN AND EXCITED ABOUT
THE PROCESS SO FAR I'VE ALSO
NOT BEEN PAID BY ANY DEVELOPERS
TO COME HERE.
I'M SPEAKING AS A RESIDENT AND
HOMEOWNER WHO JUST LOVES ANN
ARBOR.
I FIRST FOUND OUT ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN A LITTLE
OVER A YEAR AGO.
THERE WAS A SERIES OF OPEN
HOUSES AT THE LIBRARIES THAT I
ATTENDED.
I GOT TO HEAR ABOUT HOW THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT WAS
THINKING ABOUT THE FUTURE
OF ANN ARBOR AND SHARE MY
THOUGHTS ABOUT WHERE I'D LIKE
TO LIVE AND HOW I'D LIKE TO GET
AROUND TOWN.
I THOUGHT THEY WERE VERY, VERY
WELL DONE AND STAFF DID A GREAT
JOB OF LAYING OUT INFORMATION
AND SETTING UP EXERCISES FOR US
TO DO AS A WAY TO SHARE
TARGETED FEEDBACK.
SO I WAS SURPRISED TO HEAR SO
MANY PEOPLE SAY THEY HAD ONLY
RECENTLY HEARD ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THEN
THERE WERE SOME MAYBE HIDDEN OR
NEFARIOUS PROCESS.
I WOULDN'T SAY I'M THE MOST
PLUGGED IN TO ATORVASTATIN
CONVERSATIONS.
THIS IS MY SECOND TIME EVER
GIVING PUBLIC COMMENT BUT I
FOUND IT BUT I HAD FOUND OUT
ABOUT THESE SESSIONS SOMEHOW
AND SO I WANTED TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO DISCOVER THESE SESSIONS
AND HERE'S WHAT I FOUND.
STEPHEN BANABA HAD EMAILED ME
WITH THE SUBJECT LINE QUOTE
SHARE YOUR IDEAS AT ANN ARBOR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OPEN HOUSES
ON APRIL 19TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
I'M ALSO IN WARD FIVE AND
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS MENTIONED
IT IN MULTIPLE EMAIL
NEWSLETTERS AT THE TIME.
IN FACT, MANY LOCAL LEADERS HAD
INCLUDED DETAILS OF THESE
SESSIONS AND OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO ENGAGE THE
PROCESS IN THEIR NEWSLETTERS
WITHIN THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
.
THIS INCLUDES NEWSLETTERS
WRITTEN BY LOCAL LEADERS WHO
ARE NOW SAYING THAT WE SHOULD
PASS THE PLAN.
WELL, THOSE ADVOCATING FOR
PASSING THE PLAN ARE SAYING IS
THAT THOSE OF US WHO DID SHOW
UP AND WHO DID VOICE OUR
OPINIONS DON'T MATTER THAT
AFTER A TRANSPARENT AND
PUBLICIZED PROCESS WE SHOULD
DISENFRANCHIZE CERTAIN VOICES.
YOU OFTEN HEAR THE DICHOTOMY
WHERE SOME OF US ARE DEEMED
ACTIVISTS WHILE OTHERS ARE
SIMPLY CONCERNED RESIDENTS.
THIS LANGUAGE ALSO SERVES TO
DISENFRANCHIZE CERTAIN VOICES
BECAUSE I TOO AM A CONCERNED
CITIZEN AND CONCERNED RESIDENT
WHO PLANS TO SPEND THE NEXT 50
YEARS IN NABIL AND I'M VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT HOW WE'RE GOING
TO GROW TO MEET THE COMING
CHALLENGES.
I'M HERE TODAY SPEAKING BECAUSE
ON TOP OF SHARING MY OPINIONS A
YEAR AGO I HAVE TO COME HERE
AGAIN TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
ENGAGEMENT MATTERED AND THAT WE
DON'T ARBITRARILY PAUSE BECAUSE
SOME PEOPLE DON'T LIKE THE WHAT
CAME OUT OF THAT PROCESS AND
IT'S PERFECTLY FAIR TO NOT LIKE
THE DRAFT PLAN.
WE STILL HAVE SEVERAL MONTHS
OF PUBLIC FEEDBACK AND
ENGAGEMENT WHICH IS DOING
EXACTLY WHAT IT WAS DESIGNED TO
DO ANYWAYS THANKS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND
ESPECIALLY THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT STAFF FOR ALL THE
HARD WORK YOU PUT IN OVER THE
LAST SEVERAL YEARS INTO A PLAN
THAT AFFIRMS OUR NEED FOR MORE
HOUSING, FOR EQUITY AND FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OH GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME KOLEVAR.
I LIVE AT SEVEN 004 HUTCHINS'
ON THE OLD WEST SIDE AND
UNFORTUNATELY I'M GOING TO HAVE
TO BE ONE OF THOSE TO COME UP
AND THANK YOU FOR TAKING TIME
FOR THE COMMENTS BUT I AM GOING
TO BE APPEALING TO YOU AND TO
THE CITY COUNCIL TO PASS THE
PLAN SO I HAVE TO DISAGREE A
LITTLE BIT.
I DON'T CONSIDER MYSELF
DISENGAGED CITIZEN.
I WOULD'VE LIVED ON THE OLD
SIDE FOR OVER THIRTY YEARS.
I WORK AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
I ATTENDED CHURCH DOWNTOWN.
WE'RE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
EVERYBODY REALLY DOES TALK TO
EACH OTHER BUT UNFORTUNATELY IT
WAS JUST A FEW WEEKS AGO THAT A
COLLEAGUE AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BROUGHT THIS TO MY
ATTENTION.
THAT WAS REALLY QUITE SURPRISED
BECAUSE I SAID WHY WOULDN'T
THERE HAVE BEEN A GREATER
OUTREACH FROM THE CITY TO
ENGAGE THE RESIDENTS?
>> SO MY RADAR WENT UP AND IT
OCCURRED TO ME THAT WORKING IN
PRIVATE INDUSTRY NONPROFIT AND
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
THE BIGGEST THING THAT I HAVE
LEARNED IS THAT TO GET A BUY IN
FROM THE PEOPLE IN THIS CASE
THE RESIDENTS IS TO FEEL LIKE
YOU REALLY DID HAVE A VOICE
FROM THE EARLIEST STAGES NOT
WHEN THE PLAN IS ALREADY BEING
FINALIZED.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, A PROCESS
THAT FEELS LIKE THERE'S
HONESTY, TRANSPARENCY AND TO BE
INCLUDED THEN I COULD ACTUALLY
GET ON BOARD.
BUT THE THOUGHT OF CREATING A
PLAN THAT IS GOING TO IMPACT
THE WHOLE CITY AND WHERE PEOPLE
AREN'T FEELING LIKE THEIR VOICE
MATTERED FROM DAY ONE, I
DEFINITELY TAKE ISSUE WITH
THAT.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO ASK THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
CITY COUNCIL TO PAUSE THE PLAN
AND TRY TO BRING IN MORE VOICES
THAN JUST THAT EARLY TWO OR
THREE PERCENT THAT WAS INCLUDED
FROM FROM THE GET GO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HEY MY NAME IS ZHONGKANG I LIVE
AT TWENTY TWO THIRTY FIVE
TRILLION LINK WAMU.
I'M HERE TO ASK THE COMMISSION
TO CONSIDER NOT
FURTHER
DIVIDING THE TRANSITION ZONE
INTO ADDITIONAL OR
SUBCATEGORIES OR SUBDISTRICTS
AND FOR THE FOLLOWING A COUPLE
OF REASONS.
ONE IS MY UNDERSTANDING IS ONE
OF THE DISTRICTS WILL BE SORT
OF MESSY INDUSTRIAL USE AND AS
SOMEBODY WHO LIVES ACROSS FROM
THAT AREA SO THAT MY HOUSE IS
LOCATED OFF OF PLAID BETWEEN
WASHINGTON AND PACARD AND RIGHT
ACROSS FROM OUR HOUSE WHERE MY
WIFE AND I AND ALSO MY PARENTS
IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD WILL
BE YOU KNOW, COULD BE ZONED IN
SUCH A WAY THAT THERE WILL BE
YOU KNOW, INDUSTRIAL USE AND
FOR OBVIOUS REASONS WE'RE
CONCERNED POLLUTANTS IN OUR
BACKYARD.
THE OTHER SORT OF POTENTIAL
CATEGORY THAT IT WILL BE WITHIN
THE TRANSITION ZONE AS I
UNDERSTAND IT WILL BE SORT OF A
RETAIL AREA, FIRST FLOOR, FIRST
GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL USE AND
THAT MEANS THE VERY SORT
OF NARROW DEFINITION OF THAT
WOULD MEAN A LOT OF THE AIR THE
LOCAL BUSINESSES THAT WE
ROUTINELY USED WOULD BE NO
LONGER AVAILABLE.
SO WE DON'T HAVE A CAR.
WE WE WALK TO OUR DOCTOR'S
OFFICE AND THAT WE JUST TOOK
OUR DOG TO TO OUR VET BY
WALKING YESTERDAY.
SO THOSE SORT OF USES WILL NO
LONGER BE PERMISSIBLE.
AND SO FOR FOR THOSE REASONS WE
WOULD I WOULD JUST LIKE THE
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER NOT
FURTHER DIVIDING THE
TRANSITIONS INTO SUBDISTRICTS.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO.
HI.
SO MY HEAD IS ETHAN JEWITT.
I BOW TO MY STUDENTS AND IN
CASE I DON'T MAKE IT TO THE END
OF THIS MY OVERALL MESSAGE IS
THAT ONE OF THE EARLIER PEOPLE
TALKED ABOUT DISENFRANCHIZING
EARLIER VOICES.
THE IDEA IS ABSOLUTELY NOT TO
DISENFRANCHIZE ANYBODY WHO'S
SPOKEN BEFORE IT'S TO PLEASE
NOT DISENFRANCHIZE PEOPLE WHO
ARE ONLY LEARNING ABOUT IT NOW
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
ON JANUARY TWENTY THIRD WAS THE
SORT OF FIRST REAL PUBLIC
MEETING THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
SAW ABOUT THIS AND PERSON AFTER
PERSON GOT UP TO SPEAK GIVEN
THE FACT THAT THIS ROOM IS FULL
TODAY AND PEOPLE ARE PRETTY
HOPPING MAD, I WOULD HAVE
EXPECTED THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
WOULD STAND UP AND SPEAK IN
OPPOSITION TO THE PLAN BUT THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN PERSON AFTER
PERSON GOT UP AND SPOKE
STRONGLY IN FAVOR THE PLAN NOT
A SINGLE PERSON OPPOSE IT
EXCEPT FOR MAYBE SOMEBODY ON
ZIMMERMAN WHO I COULDN'T HEAR
WHAT THEY WERE SAYING PEOPLE
WHO WERE THERE THAT DAY NOTED A
SURPRISING LACK OF DISSENTING
VOICES AND IT ISN'T THAT NOBODY
OPPOSED IT.
I MEAN LOOK AT ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE HERE TODAY.
IT'S NOT THAT NOBODY OPPOSED
IT.
THEY DID NOT KNOW ABOUT IT AND
WHY DIDN'T THEY KNOW ABOUT IT?
>> BECAUSE YOU DID NOT IN FACT
ACTIVELY ENGAGE THE PUBLIC.
ONLY PEOPLE IN A SMALL NETWORK
SHOWED UP TO SUPPORT THE PLAN
AND IT LATER TURNED OUT THAT A
LOT OF THOSE PEOPLE KNEW EACH
OTHER PRETTY WELL.
>> THE ACTUAL BROADER PUBLIC IN
ANN ARBOR EVERYBODY HAS BEEN
LEARNING ABOUT THIS PLAN ONLY
RECENTLY AND IN THE END IT TOOK
RELATIVELY LITTLE TO MAKE THAT
HAPPEN.
IT REALLY TOOK ONE
CONSCIENTIOUS AND PUBLICLY
SPIRITED PERSON WITH A PRINTER.
THAT'S ALL WE TOOK.
SO NO, YOU DID NOT DO ENOUGH TO
ENGAGE THE PUBLIC.
>> NOW THE PUBLIC IS ONLY
GETTING UP TO SPEED BUT WE'RE
NOT EXPERTS AND BECAUSE WE WERE
NOT IN THIS PROCESS FROM THE
BEGINNING, WE'RE BEHIND AND
IT'S TAKING US SOME TIME.
>> THIS PLAN THERE IS NO REASON
WHY THIS PLAN HAS TO MOVE
FORWARD AT SUCH A BREAKNECK
SPEED.
IF YOU LOOK AT SIMILAR PLANS IN
OTHER PLACES, THEY HAVE NOT
MOVED THIS FAST.
IT IS TAKING YEARS.
THERE HAVE BEEN YEARS OF PUBLIC
COMING TWO YEARS OF PUBLIC
COMMENT IN SEATTLE AND AND
MINNEAPOLIS FOR EXAMPLE.
OK, SO I ONLY HAVE FORTY NINE
LEFT SO I'M GOING TO TRY TO
BRIDGE THIS FOR FORTY NINE
SECONDS.
BUT IN COMPARISON TO THOSE
PLANS THIS MAP IS REALLY REALLY
SIMPLE.
THIS PLAN IS REALLY SIMPLE.
THOSE PLANS ARE HUNDREDS
OF PAGES WITH LOTS
OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND
DATA.
THIS PLAN HAS VERY LITTLE DATA
AND IT'S OVERLY SIMPLISTIC.
FOR EXAMPLE, LOOK AT MILLER.
YOUR TREATMENT OF MILLER
ACCOUNTS FOR HALF OF THE
DERISION IN THIS ROOM.
ANY IDIOT CAN LOOK AT MILLER
AND SEE THAT IS NOT A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR.
WE'RE SEVENTY FIVE FOOT TALL
BUILDINGS SHOULD BE BUILT.
IT'S A SLEEPY RESIDENTIAL
STREET THROUGH QUIETLY
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THAT SAME
LACK OF CARE WAS APPLIED TO THE
REST OF THE PLAN AS WELL.
AND I'M SORRY JUST TO SPEAK
HARSHLY ON THAT.
I KNOW IT'S A LOT OF WORK BUT
THINGS TAKE SO MUCH MORE TIME
DO YOU THINK THEY TAKE SO MUCH
MORE TIME AND THEY TAKE
ENGAGEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO AARON KENNY.
I HAVE SPOKEN HERE BEFORE.
I LIVE AT TEN THIRTY NINE
OLIVIA I'VE SPOKEN HERE BUT I
FELT COMPELLED TO DO IT AGAIN
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT ISSUE TO
ANN ARBOR.
MY COMMUNITY, MY NEIGHBORS AND
TO MY CHILDREN.
I RESPECTFULLY URGE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO
REEVALUATE AND DELAY MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS PLAN AS
CURRENTLY PROPOSED ALLOWING FOR
STORY BUILDINGS WHICH IS MY
BIGGEST CONCERN.
THE PLAN WITH UNLIMITED UNITS
IN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS,
ESPECIALLY THOSE IN THE RING
AROUND CAMPUS WHICH IS WHERE I
LIVE WILL ONLY ACCELERATE THE
TREND OF WEALTHY DEVELOPERS AND
HEDGE FUNDS BY DEMOLISHING AND
REPLACING HOMES ONCE THESE
HISTORIC HOMES ARE GONE, SO TOO
IS THE FABRIC OF OUR COMMUNITY
.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS DIVERSE
ABOUT FORTY PERCENT RENTERS THE
OWNER OCCUPIED AND WE VALUE
THAT MIX BUT OUR LOCATION JUST
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS PUTS US AT
PARTICULAR RISK.
WE'RE ALREADY SEEING OUR
STREETS TRANSFORMED BY OVERSIZE
OUT OF SCALE BUILDINGS OWNED BY
ABSENTEE LANDLORDS.
THIS PLAN AS WRITTEN WILL DO
LITTLE TO ADDRESS THE TRUE
OF HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
MUCH TO UNDERMINE OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND LIVABILITY
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE OURS DESERVE
A STRONGER VOICE IN ZONING
DECISIONS AND WE'VE ALREADY
SEEN FIRSTHAND HOW SMALL POLICY
SHIFTS CAN HAVE MAJOR
CONSEQUENCES.
THE REDUCTION IN MINIMAL SIZE
FROM FIVE THOUSAND TO TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET, FOR
EXAMPLE HAS DIRECTLY LED TO
LOTS SPLITS, MATURE TREES,
EXCAVATIONS FROM TIRE LOTS,
MATURE TREES, EXCAVATIONS FROM
TIRE LOTS, HOME DEMOLITIONS AND
THE CONSTRUCTION OF DORM STYLE
HOUSING JUST NEXT TO MY HOME TO
DUPLEXES ARE GOING UP THAT WILL
HOUSE EXCUSE ME TRYING TO RUSH
THROUGH THIS 16 TO 20
INDIVIDUALS WITH BEDS RENTING
AT FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS EACH
HARDLY AFFORDABLE.
NOT THE KIND OF DEVELOPMENT
THAT FOSTERS LONG TERM
COMMUNITY.
WE'RE ALREADY FEELING THE
IMPACTS ON MY STREET TRASH
SPILLING INTO THE STREETS,
RODENTS IN THE ALLEYS, DRAG
RACING AND EARLY MORNING DJS.
THESE AREN'T HYPOTHETICAL
RISKS.
THERE ARE DAILY REALITY.
WE PUT CAMERAS UP OUTSIDE OUR
HOMES.
I URGE YOU TO TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK, MORE NUANCED LOOK AT THE
DISTINCT NEEDS OF NEIGHBORHOODS
LIKE OURS.
ANN ARBOR SHOULD NOT ALLOW ITS
LEGACY TO BE THE UNCHECKED
REPLACEMENT OF HISTORIC VIBRANT
COMMUNITIES ESPECIALLY FOR SO
LITTLE GAIN.
A STUDY BY THE URBAN INSTITUTE
FOUND THAT ZONI RELAXATIONS
ACROSS THE US LET ME JUST POINT
ZERO EIGHT PERCENT INCREASE IN
HOUSING SUPPLY OVER THREE TO
NINE YEARS MOSTLY HIGH END
UNITS WITH NO STATISTICALLY
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
AFFORDABILITY OR ACCESS TO LOW
COST HOUSING.
WE CAN DO BETTER THAN THIS AND
I THINK IF WE PAUSE THE PLAN WE
CAN INCLUDE AWFULLEST
THOUGHTFULNESS AND NEIGHBORHOOD
VOICES AT THE CENTER OF THE
PROCESS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS YOURKA HADDISH AND I
LIVE ON CHANDLER ROAD IN THE
FIRST WARD.
I LIKE TO SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE PETITIONS AND MEMOS
THAT HAVE BEEN CIRCULATING
SEEKING TO DERAIL THE CALL PLAN
PROCESS.
IF WE LOOK BACK AT THE RESULTS
OF THE LAST THREE COUNCIL
ELECTIONS GOING ALL THE WAY
BACK TO TWENTY TWENTY, I THINK
IT'S ABUNDANTLY CLEAR THAT A
MAJORITY OF VOTES WENT TO
CANDIDATES WITH AN EXPLICITLY
PRO HOUSING AGENDA.
THIS IS NOT A NEW ISSUE IN OUR
CITY.
ELECTIONS MAY NOT BE THE SAME
THING AS A STATISTICALLY
REPRESENTATIVE SURVEY BUT THEY
ARE THE BASIS FOR OUR DEMOCRACY
AND THE ONGOING EFFORTS TO
DISCREDIT THE LEGITIMACY OF THE
PLANNING PROCESS.
STRIKE ME AS HAVING A FAINT
WHIFF OF ELECTION DENIALISM
SOMETHING NOT A REALISTIC
SOLUTION TO THE HOUSING CRISIS
WOULD BE TO WAVE A MAGIC WAND
AND CONTROL A LARGE NUMBER
OF DENHA RESTRICTED HOUSES
BUILT UNDER THE EXISTING
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING REGIME.
BUT IF YOU TRULY SUPPORT THE
MISSION OF THE COMMUNITY LAND
TRUST AND THE HOUSING
COMMISSION, WHY WOULDN'T YOU
WANT THE SCARCE LAND THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO BE USED FOR AS
MUCH HOUSING AS POSSIBLE?
INSTEAD, THEIR SO-CALLED
SOLUTION IS TO PROMISE THE
FALSE DREAM OF 1950S STYLE
SUBURBIA TO A FEW LUCKY LOTTERY
WINNERS.
IT'S BORDERLINE COMICAL TO CITE
SANDHOG POPULATION AND JOB
GROWTH ESTIMATES AS AN ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF KEEPING
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING.
OF COURSE THE CURRENT TREND
LINES ARE FLAT BECAUSE IT'S
ILLEGAL FOR MORE PEOPLE AND
BUSINESSES TO MOVE HERE.
IF WE EVER REACH A 15 PERCENT
VACANCY RATE AND ABANDONED
PROPERTIES ARE BLINDING THE
CITY, WE CAN MAYBE START
TALKING ABOUT A PROBLEM
OF OVERSUPPLY.
THE IDEA THAT INFRASTRUCTURE
COSTS OF NEW DEVELOPMENT WILL
DISPROPORTIONATELY FALL ON
OWNERS OF OLD EXISTING
BUILDINGS IS PURE FICTION.
NEW DEVELOPMENTS ARE REQUIRED
TO PAY IMPACT FEES AND LONG
TERM OWNERS ENJOY CAPPED
PROPERTY TAXES THINGS LIKE
POWER, WATER, SEWERS, SCHOOLS,
LIBRARIES, BUSSES ETC. ALL
BECOME MORE EFFICIENT AND
CHEAPER PER PERSON WHEN MORE
PEOPLE USE THEM.
>> THEN THERE'S THE
INTELLECTUALLY DISHONEST
ARGUMENT OF EMBODIED
CARBON THAT DRAWS A LINE AROUND
THE CITY LIMITS AND PRETENDS
THAT THE REST OF THE WORLD
DOESN'T EXIST.
THERE'S ALSO THE HYPOCRISY
OF MOURNING THE LOSS OF PLACES
LIKE BROWN CORN WHILE REFUSING
TO MAKE SIMILAR DEVELOPMENTS
LEGAL ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY TO
THE CONCERNS ABOUT SHADE.
WHY SHOULD SHADE FROM TREES BE
GOOD BUT SHADE FROM BUILDINGS
BAD?
I COULD GO ON BUT I'D LIKE TO
END WITH A BASIC QUESTION THAT
I'D LIKE EVERYONE TO CONSIDER.
WHAT IS THE NEXT LEVEL OF THE
LAND THAT YOU THINK SHOULD BE
REQUIRED TO PAY FOR IN ORDER TO
HAVE THE PRIVILEGE OF BEING
YOUR NEIGHBOR?
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF YOU BUY OR
RENT A SINGLE STORY MULTISTORY
YOU TRY TO ATTACH HOUSING IS BY
DEFINITION HAVING THE EXCLUSIVE
RIGHT TO A PIECE OF LAND FOR
ALL THE TALK OF NEW HOUSING
BEING EXPENSIVE DUE TO LABOR
AND MATERIALS, THE ONE THING
THAT THIS BODY HAS A DIRECT
INFLUENCE ON IS THE MINIMAL
AMOUNT OF LAND YOU NEED TO PAY
FOR IN ORDER TO LIVE HERE.
THERE ARE OF COURSE WAYS TO
MAKE
AND LESS VALUABLE BY
CONSTRAINING DEVELOPMENT,
SABOTAGING ECONOMIC VITALITY
AND MAYBE SOMEONE WOULD SUPPORT
SUCH A MYOPIC STRATEGY JUST AS
BY THE GREEDY DEVELOPERS.
BUT I HOPE MOST OF US CAN AGREE
THAT HIGH LAND VALUES ARE A
GOOD THING AND WE CAN ALL SHARE
IN THAT PROSPERITY IF WE STOP
FORCING EVERY SINGLE RESIDENT
TO PAY FOR A SUPER SIZED BULK
PACKAGE AT THE PRICE
OF ADMISSION INTO OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JONATHAN LEVINE FOUR FIVE
SIX HILLSVILLE.
THE DECISION TO LIMIT BUILDING
HEIGHTS IN LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
ZONE TO THREE STORIES INSTEAD
OF FOUR WILL REDUCE THE HOUSING
POTENTIAL IN THOSE AREAS BY
MORE THAN TWENTY FIVE PERCENT
AND THAT'S BECAUSE THE
BUILDINGS THE PROJECTS WILL BE
SMALLER AND MANY MORE PENCIL
OUT.
SO IT'S EVEN MORE IMPORTANT
THAT WE ALLOW OTHER PARTS
OF THE CITY, ESPECIALLY THOSE
WITH HIGH HOUSING POTENTIAL TO
HELP MEET OUR URGENT HOUSING
NEEDS THREE QUICK POINTS FOR
THE COMMISSION.
FIRST, THANK YOU FOR FOLDING
THE FLEX ZONE INTO THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT BUT LET'S
NOT CREATE MULTIPLE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS HARMFUL USES DON'T
BELONG ANYWHERE IN THE CITY AND
USES THAT MEET PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS SHOULD BE ALLOWED
THROUGHOUT THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
SECOND, WELL WE SHOULD LIMIT
BUILDING HEIGHT IN THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT ONLY WHERE
IT BORDERS LOW RISE
NEIGHBORHOODS NOT WHERE IT'S
AWAY FROM LOW RISE OR CLOSE TO
THE CORE.
THESE ARE SOME OF OUR MOST
PROMISING AREAS FOR NEW HOUSING
AND STRICT LIMITS THERE WOULD
COST A LOT IN TERMS OF HOUSING
THAT DOESN'T GET BUILT WELL
HELPING VERY LITTLE.
THIRD, LET'S ALLOW BUT NOT
REQUIRE GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL
USES IN THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
.
MIXED USE IS GREAT BUT FORCING
COMMERCIAL USES COULD MAKE SOME
WORTHWHILE HOUSING UNWORKABLE,
ESPECIALLY GIVEN TODAY'S RETAIL
AND OFFICE CHALLENGES.
NOW I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO MY
FELLOW HOMEOWNERS IN ANN ARBOR
.
I LOVE LIVING IN A CITY THAT
VALUES SOCIAL JUSTICE AND
ACCESS TO HOUSING IS ONE OF THE
DEFINING SOCIAL JUSTICE ISSUES
OF OUR TIME THIS COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS GIVES US A
CHANCE TO ACT ON OUR VALUES TO
OVERCOME OUR HOUSING SHORTAGE.
WE NEED MORE HOMES ACROSS THE
CITY INCLUDING IN THE LARGE
MAJORITY OF OUR RESIDENTIAL
TERRITORY THE STILL ZONED FOR
ONLY SINGLE FAMILY IF WE WALL
OFF THE CURRENT SINGLE FAMILY
ZONE WE'RE LIMITING OUR ABILITY
TO SOLVE THE HOUSING SHORTAGE.
WE'RE ALSO CONCENTRATING THE
COSTS OF CHANGE RATHER THAN
SHARING THEM EQUITABLY ACROSS
THE CITY.
>> THAT'S JUST NOT FAIR
OVERCOMING HOUSING SHORTAGE
MEANS ALLOWING SPACE FOR AMONG
OTHERS PRIVATE BUILDERS BECAUSE
LIKE IT OR NOT THEY CONSTRUCT
MOST OF OUR HOUSING WHEN WE
BLOCK A NEW HOUSING WE JUST
DRIVE UP THE COST OF THE
HOUSING THAT'S ALREADY THERE.
BUT DON'T TAKE MY WORD FOR IT.
LET'S LISTEN TO THE EXPERTS AND
BY THAT I MEAN THE SCORES
OF YOUNGER PEOPLE INCLUDING
STUDENTS, NURSES AND TEACHERS
WHO'VE SPOKEN UP DURING THIS
PLANNING PROCESS IN ARE
STRUGGLING TO MAKE THEIR WAY IN
OUR EXCLUSIONARY HOUSING MARKET
.
>> THEY KNOW WELL THE AWFUL
POWER OF THEIR LANDLORDS WHEN
RENTAL VACANCIES ARE FAR LOWER
THAN A HEALTHY FIVE TO SEVEN
PERCENT.
THEY'RE AWARE OF THE UNTENABLY
LONG COMMUTES IN SEARCH
OF HOUSING THEY CAN AFFORD.
THEY NOT BE STUCK IN
SUBSTANDARD HOUSING BECAUSE
OF LACK OF NEW CONSTRUCTION.
THIS REALLY IS A HAVES VERSUS
HAVE NOTS ISSUES AND THOSE
OF US WHO ARE LUCKY ENOUGH TO
HAVE BOUGHT IN DECADES AGO NEED
TO CHOOSE A SIDE.
THANK YOU, DR. LEVINE.
HI, MY NAME IS MARGARET MCCALL
.
>> I LIVE AT TWO SEVEN NINE
COLONY ROAD IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M SPEAKING IN SUPPORT OF THE
PLAN TODAY.
>> I HAD A BABY LAST YEAR WHO
IS IN THE HALL WITH MY MOM TO
AVOID VOICING HIS OPINION OUT
OF TURN AND I REALLY AM HERE
TODAY BECAUSE I WANT TO ENSURE
THAT ANN ARBOR IS A PLACE WHERE
WHEN HE GROWS UP HE CAN AFFORD
TO LIVE AND STAY WITH ME.
TO ME THIS MEANS WE NEED TO
MAKE A LONG TERM INVESTMENT IN
KEEPING ANN ARBOR A PLACE AS
AFFORDABLE AND A PLACE WHERE
EVERYONE CAN LIVE.
AND I THINK THAT THIS MEANS
THAT WE JUST NEED MORE HOUSING
PLAIN AND SIMPLE.
>> OUR WORLD HAS SO MANY
PROBLEMS.
THERE'S HOUSING
UNAFFORDABILITY, HOMELESSNESS,
CLIMATE CHANGE AND INCOME
INEQUALITY AND WE NEED TO MAKE
MEANINGFUL PROGRESS ON THESE
ISSUES.
AND ANN ARBOR IS A PLACE THAT
ACTUALLY CARES ABOUT DOING
THAT.
THAT'S PART OF THE REASON I'M
GLAD TO BE HERE.
PLANS LIKE THIS PLAN ACTUALLY
HAVE A CHANCE OF MOVING THE
NEEDLE ON THESE ISSUES.
WE NEED TO BE BOLD AND MOVE IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION AND TO ME
THE PLAN IS DOING EXACTLY THAT.
SO MANY FOLKS IN ANN ARBOR
CLAIM TO CARE ABOUT THESE
ISSUES AND SO IT'S TIME FOR US
TO SUPPORT PLANS LIKE THIS ONE
THAT ACTUALLY BRING OUR VALUES
TO LIFE.
I HAVE SEEN SIGNS AROUND TOWN
TO PAUSE THE PLAN AND THIS HAS
INSPIRED ME TO GET UP AND SPEAK
FOR A SECOND TIME TO GET OUT
HERE AND TAKE THE TIME DESPITE
HAVING AN 11 MONTH OLD BECAUSE
THIS REALLY UPSETS ME TO ME IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A PRETTY
CLEAR FEEDBACK PROCESS THAT
WE'RE ENGAGED IN RIGHT NOW AND
IT'S A PROPOSAL THIS PLAN IS A
PROPOSAL.
>> IT'S NOT A FINAL ANSWER YET
SO WE CAN KEEP COLLECTING
FEEDBACK.
WE REALLY SHOULD BUT WE CAN'T
AFFORD TO DELAY FOREVER.
I SEE THIS AS A SORT OF TRAGIC
TREND IN PROGRESSIVE AMERICA TO
MAKE THE PERFECT THE ENEMY
OF THE GOOD AND NEVER ACTUALLY
TAKE ACTION.
>> SO IN CONCLUSION, I
APPRECIATE THAT THE PLAN IS
LOOKING AMBITIOUSLY TO THE
FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR
SPECIFICALLY FOR YOUNG FAMILIES
LIKE MINE WHO HOPE TO BE HERE
FOR YEARS AND YEARS AND SEE THE
PLAN PLAYOUT.
THANK YOU TO THE COMMISSION FOR
YOUR HARD WORK ON THIS.
THANK HI AND WELCOME.
HI.
GOOD EVENING URBAN MEYER.
I LIVE IT TO EIGHT ZERO NINE
BROCKMANN BOULEVARD.
MY COMMENT TONIGHT IS ABOUT WHY
INCLUSION OF ALL PARTS OF THE
COMMUNITY IS A FUNDAMENTAL PART
SHOULD BE A FUNDAMENTAL PART
OF THE PLANNING PROCESS TO DO
THIS I'M GOING TO READ EXCERPTS
FROM AN ESSAY BY JAMES
ROCKHOUSE, AN MIT EDUCATED
URBAN PLANNER WORKING IN LOS
ANGELES.
HIS ESSAY IS BASED ON HIS
EDUCATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL
EXPERIENCES AS A PERSON
OF COLOR.
HERE HE GOES.
I'M HAVING HIM SAY IT BECAUSE
HE DOES IT BETTER THAN I COULD.
URBAN PLANNERS TAKE PRIDE IN
KNOWING NOT SO MUCH FEELING
COMMUNITY'S EMOTION IS
GENERALLY NOT A PART OF THEIR
TOOLKIT.
MOST PLANNERS ARE TRAINED TO
WORK IN A RATIONAL TRADITION
THINKING ABOUT CITIES IN HEAD
HEAVY WAYS AND USING MAPS AND
DATA TO UNDERSTAND AND REGULATE
THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE.
THIS RIGID UNDERSTANDING
OF COMMUNITIES, ESPECIALLY
NONWHITE ONES CREATES PROBLEMS
BECAUSE PLANNERS ONLY APPLIED A
ONE SIZE FITS ALL APPROACH TO
LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN AND
ZONING.
NOT TRULY LISTENING TO THESE
COMMUNITIES OR EVEN SIMPLY
ALLOWING FOR OTHER WAYS
OF BEING HAS LED TO LONG
DECADES OF CONFLICT, TRAUMA AND
OPPRESSION.
OUR URBAN INEQUITIES ARE NOT
ACCIDENTS.
THEY'RE PRODUCTS OF DESIGN AND
INTENTION IN CONTRAST TO
PLANNERS AND OTHER EXPERTS,
MOST PEOPLE EXPERIENCE CITIES
AND PROFOUNDLY TACTILE WAYS
THROUGH THEIR SENSES AND
EMOTIONS.
THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF CITIES
ARE MORE THAN STRUCTURES,
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS BUT
EQUALLY ENCOMPASS PERSONAL
LIVED EXPERIENCE, COLLECTIVE
MEMORY AND ASPIRATIONS.
THESE ASPECTS ARE WHAT
TRANSFORM INFRASTRUCTURE INTO
PLACE INTO A SENSE OF BELONGING
COMMUNITY AND YET THESE MORE
EPHEMERAL WAYS OF UNDERSTANDING
EXCUSE ME ARE DISCOUNTED WHEN
CONVENTION ON PLANNING PRACTICE
WITHIN CONVENTIONAL PLANNING
PRACTICE AND INNOVATION OUR
WORKSHOPS HE'S HELD OVER A
THOUSAND OF THEM ARE DESIGNED
FOR PEOPLE WHO WOULD NEVER
ATTEND A PUBLIC MEETING LET
ALONE SPEAK OUT AT ONE.
PARTICIPANTS QUICKLY REALIZE
THEY POSSESS A SINGULAR
EXPERTIZE THAT SURPASSES
ANYTHING EXPERTS CAN PROVIDE.
AFTER ALL, WHO KNOWS AND
UNDERSTANDS THEIR COMMUNITY
BETTER THAN THEM.
THIS IS AN EXTREMELY EMPOWERED
REALIZATION.
I KNOW THAT QUANTITATIVE
RESEARCH REMAINS IMPORTANT
AGAIN THIS IS HIM SPEAKING.
SOME THINGS DO NEED TO BE
PLOTTED, MAPPED AND MEASURED
BUT THESE METRICS ALONE DON'T
PROVIDE A FULL ENOUGH PORTRAIT.
OFTENTIMES THEY ACT AS
PARAMETERS FOR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT HAVING PEOPLE USE
THEIR OWN HANDS AND BUILD THEIR
OWN STORIES ENSURES THAT WE ARE
EXPRESSING FEELINGS.
THE GOAL IS TO CREATE A VISION
FOR THE FUTURE THAT REFLECTS
THEIR PAST AND SHOWS THEM HOW
THEIR LIVES AND ACTIONS CAN
SHAPE POLICY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
RATHER THAN THE OTHER WAY
AROUND.
THAT KIND OF ENGAGEMENT CAN'T
HAPPEN WITHOUT DIRECT INPUT
FROM THE COMMUNITY.
THEY'LL TELL YOU WHAT MATTERS.
PLEASE PLAN WORK WITH ALL
OF OUR COMMUNITIES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
RIGHT.
>> HI MY NAME IS WENDY RYAN.
I LIVE AT TWENTY THREE
SEVENTEEN PACKARD OLD
CONDOMINIUM COMPLEX.
I ALSO OWN A BUILDING ON STATE
STREET.
IT'S MY BUSINESS.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR
OVER FORTY YEARS AND DURING
THAT TIME I'VE SEEN A LOT MORE
DENSITY.
I AM ALL ABOUT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BUT IN MY FORTY YEARS
WHAT I'VE SEEN IS THE PROPERTY
VALUES INCREASING, INCREASING,
INCREASING.
I DON'T SEE AFFORDABILITY IN
THIS PLAN.
I DON'T SEE A PLAN FOR THE
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE WATER IN
ARBOR HAS PROBLEMS WITH
FLOODING.
I DON'T SEE IT.
WE HAVE A PLAN FOR GREEN SPACE
AND THE PLAN THAT I DO SEE IS
EXTREMELY VAGUE.
I DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN A BIG
CITY.
I DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN CHICAGO
OR NEW YORK.
I WANT TO HAVE TREES.
I WANT TO BE ABLE TO WALK
DOWNTOWN AND WALK THROUGH
NEIGHBORHOODS AND NOT FEEL LIKE
I'M BEING SHADOWED BY BUILDINGS
I THINK THE PLAN COULD BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE COMPREHENSIVE.
I DON'T THINK IT NEEDS TO MOVE
SO FAST.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DANIEL ROSENBAUM.
I LIVE AT FIVE TWENTY
ON
FOUNTAIN STREET.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE THREE QUICK
POINTS THE FIRST I WANT TO JOIN
THE CHORUS OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SPOKEN TODAY AND BEFOREHAND IN
SUPPORT OF THIS PLAN.
I THINK IT'S A SMALL STEP AND
AN IMPORTANT STEP IN TOWARDS
MAKING ANN ARBOR A MORE
SUSTAINABLE, WELCOMING,
PROSPEROUS, VIBRANT AND DIVERSE
PLACE.
SO THE FIRST COMMENT IS I'M
SPEAKING IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PLAN.
MY SECOND COMMENT TO ADD IS
SLIGHTLY MORE PERSONAL
PERSPECTIVE.
I AM LUCKY ENOUGH TO BE A
HOMEOWNER WHO LIVES LESS THAN
ONE BLOCK FROM THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT AS PROPOSED IN THIS
PLAN.
BUT I AM IN A RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT AS PROPOSED IN THIS
PLAN AND I WELCOME DENSITY IN
THE TRANSITION DISTRICTS TO
ACTUALLY ENCOURAGE MORE DENSITY
IN THE TRANSITION DISTRICTS.
I WELCOME MORE NEIGHBORS ON MY
BLOCK SO WHEN I SAY I WANT MORE
DENSITY IN OUR COMMUNITY I MEAN
THAT NOT JUST IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR OR SOMEWHERE ELSE
.
I MEAN THAT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
AND ON MY BLOCK.
SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE MORE
DENSITY IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AS WELL.
THE THIRD COMMON AND REALLY THE
REASON WHY I'M HERE TONIGHT IS
BECAUSE I READ AND I HEARD AND
I'VE HEARD TONIGHT AS WELL
PEOPLE SAYING THAT REGULAR
PEOPLE WERE NOT AWARE OF THIS
PROCESS.
OUR REAL NEIGHBORS WERE NOT
TOLD ABOUT THIS PROCESS AND
THAT THERE WAS SOME I DON'T
KNOW CONNECTED GROUP OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THIS
PROCESS FROM THE BEGINNING.
SO JUST TO ADD ONE VOICE IN
OPPOSITION TO WHAT I THINK
OF AS A DISINGENUOUS ARGUMENT
IN THAT REALM I HAVE KNOWN
ABOUT THIS PLAN FOR OVER A
YEAR.
I AM ALSO SOMEONE WHO WOULD
CALL MYSELF A REGULAR PERSON
AND A REAL NEIGHBOR.
I HAVE NEVER SPOKEN BEFORE A
PLANNING COMMISSION.
I'VE NEVER SPOKEN IN ANY CITY
OF AN EVER MEETING BEFORE
TONIGHT I HAVE NO CONNECTIONS
TO ANY DEVELOPERS, ANY ELECTED
OFFICIALS IN THIS COMMUNITY.
I WOULD CALL MYSELF AT LEAST
PLUGGED IN PERSON IN THIS ROOM
AND I HAVE BEEN AWARE OF THIS
PLAN FOR A LONG TIME.
I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING THIS PLAN
FOR A LONG TIME AND I URGE THE
COMMISSION TO CONTINUE MOVING
THIS PLAN FORWARD BECAUSE IT'S
VERY IMPORTANT FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
HI.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS CHRISTINE COLMAR.
I LIVE AT ONE FIVE ZERO TWO
DEXTER AVENUE AND I AM A PERSON
WHO WILL BE DIRECTLY AFFECTED
BY A TRANSITION DISTRICT AND MY
GREATEST CONCERN IS BASED ON MY
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCES WITH THE
CITY ORDINANCE SAYS IS WHETHER
OR NOT ORDINANCES WILL BE WILL
COVER BUSINESS IS AND ALL
OF THESE RETAIL COFFEE SHOPS,
BARS, WHATEVER THEY COME INTO
THE TRANSITION DISTRICTS
AFFECTING OUR LIGHT POLLUTION
AND OUR SOUND POLLUTION NOISE
POLLUTION.
I CURRENTLY LIVE IN A PLACE
THAT IS LIKE LIVING ACROSS THE
STREET FROM A TRUCK STOP ALL
NIGHT LONG AND MY HUGE CONCERN
IS THAT NOT ONLY WILL I BE
AFFECTED BY THAT BUT ENTIRE
SWATHS OF THE CITY WILL BE.
SO I REALLY ENCOURAGE THAT THE
PLAN B BECAUSE I GET MORE
INFORMATION MORE SPECIFIC
CONCERNING TRANSITION DISTRICTS
WOULD BE PLANNED OUT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
HELLO.
>> MY NAME IS CHARLES CHUCK
GREEN.
I'VE BEEN BEFORE YOU BEFORE I
DIDN'T THINK ANYTHING COULD
CALL ME OUT OF POLITICAL
RETIREMENT BUT THE ATTEMPT TO
RECOGNIZE OUR CITY HAS
CERTAINLY DONE THAT WAS A TOTAL
SUPPORTER OF THE MAYOR AND THE
CURRENT COUNCIL UNTIL I READ
THIS PLAN WHICH I REALIZED VERY
QUICKLY WAS AN ABSOLUTE SELLOUT
TO BEING DEVELOPERS THAT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH SUPPLY
SUCCEED IN SUPPLYING THIS MID
INCOME HOUSING WITH ALL THE
THINGS THAT ARE ON HERE BUT NOT
A FOURTH STORY AND RESIDENTIAL
NOT FIVE, SIX, SEVEN ALONG MY
STREET WHERE I LIVE AND A LOT
OF PEOPLES OTHER STREET.
>> THE BIGGEST PROBLEM WITH
THIS IS THAT YOU ATTEMPT TO
REDEFINE THE CENTRAL VALUES
OF THE PEOPLE.
ARE THEY IN ARBER THE CENTRAL
VALUES ARE THE CHARACTER AND
THE TREES AND THE BEAUTY OF ANN
ARBOR AND ANY OTHER VALUE YOU
THINK LOVE IS VERY SECONDARY TO
THAT WE'RE GOING TO KILL THE
GOOSE THAT LAID OUR GOLDEN EGG.
>> WHY IS THIS PLAN SO VERY
DANGEROUS SO SO DANGEROUS TO
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR?
WELL FIRST IT'LL MAKE CITY LOOK
CONGESTED AND BE CONGESTED AND
FUNNY IN ITS SECOND IT'S NOT
NEEDED AT ALL.
THE LATEST POPULATION
PROJECTIONS ARE THE POPULATION
IS ACTUALLY DECLINING AND THE
PARKS THEY CAN TAKE DOWN THE
TREE CANOPY OF TREES CITY MUCH
OF IT BY JUST CHANGING THE
SETBACKS IN RESIDENTIAL.
THERE ARE SUCH STAGGERING
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ON THIS
BOARD THAT I WON'T EVEN GO INTO
.
WE HAVE TO DRAW A REAL TREE
ORNAMENTS LIKE THEY HAVE IN
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS AND OTHER
PLACES.
THIS IS GOING TO GO FORWARD AT
BALL.
THE SETBACKS ARE THE KEY PASS
PARKS.
>> THESE FOLKS ARE GOING TO TRY
TO TAKE THE PARK I THINK MANY
YEARS OF MY LIFE MAKING PARKS
AND OPEN SPACE ALONG WITH ME
EVEN THE GREATEST MAYOR IN
HARPER HAS EVER HAD WHO CARED
ABOUT THE SPACE ABOUT GREEN
SPACE AND TREES.
PARKS ARE ON THE CHOPPING BLOCK
IN EIGHT DIFFERENT PLACES.
NO YOU'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
PARKS.
NO INFRASTRUCTURE.
THERE'S NO ONE TO PAY FOR IT
EXCEPT THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
SITTING HERE AND THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE LIVING IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
THEY PAY FOR IT INSIDE.
>> PAUSE FOR ONE SECOND IF WE
COULD ACTUALLY PAUSE WITH THE
COMMENTARY ASSOCIATES SO WE
COULD LET HIM SPEAK.
>> THANK YOU.
SEVEN DIFFERENT WAYS THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO PAY FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THEY MAKE VERY CLEAR IT WILL
COST YOU A LOT OF MONEY WHICH
IS RIDICULOUS WHEN POPULATION
IS ESSENTIALLY DECLINING.
WOW, I'VE GOT IT.
I HOPE YOU READ IT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MY NAME IS JOHN PEEL.
THIS IS THE SECOND TIME I'VE
SPOKEN HERE I LIVE AT TWENTY
HEMORRHAGE AND AGAIN THIS PLAN
THE SO-CALLED PLAN YOU HAVEN'T
REALLY CONSULTED YOUR CITIZENS
YOUR TAX PAYING CITIZENS, YOUR
VOTING CITIZENS AND A SURVEY
WAS DONE THAT WAS KIND OF A
RANDOM SURVEY WITH MANY OF THE
PEOPLE IF NOT MOST OF THE
PEOPLE REALLY NOT IN OUR BRIGHT
NOT REALLY YOUR TAXPAYING
CITIZENS.
>> THEY CAME UP WITH THIS
SURVEY THAT REALLY DIDN'T ASK
HIM ABOUT THE PLAN, ASK HIM
ABOUT OTHER THINGS.
SO WE'VE COME UP WITH A PLAN
THAT DOESN'T CONTAIN ANY DATA,
ALMOST NO DATA WHATSOEVER TO
SUPPORT WHAT IT TENDS TO DO.
IT'S QUALITATIVE.
YES, IT'S A LOT OF HANDWAVING
AND IT DOESN'T DEMONSTRATE
AGAIN THAT THERE IS A HOUSING
SHORTAGE OR HOUSING CRISIS IN
ANN ARBOR.
OUR POPULATION HAS BEEN FLAT
FOR AND AND IT IS AND PEOPLE
AREN'T LINING UP ON THE STREET
TO GET IN.
THERE ARE AREAS YOU CAN LIVE
AROUND OUTSIDE OF ANN ARBOR
THAT ARE PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
CENTER OF TOWN.
WHAT WE DO HAVE THOUGH IS A
GROWING INFRASTRUCTURE CRISIS
IF WE KEEP ADDING PEOPLE AND
THERE IS I WOULD SAY HUGELY
UNCONTROLLED GROWTH NEXT TO
CAMPUSES WITH MULTISTORY
APARTMENTS EXPENSE
OF APARTMENTS GOING UP
OVERTAXING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO?
>> WE'RE GOING TO ASK THE
PEOPLE THAT WE'RE GOING TO
CROWD OUT OF OUR CITY THAT
CURRENTLY LIVE HERE TO PAY FOR
MORE INFRASTRUCTURE SO SOMEHOW
WE CAN PUT IN MORE PEOPLE AND
AGAIN I COMPLETELY AGREE WITH
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER.
PEOPLE LIVE IN AN HOUR WHERE
PEOPLE MOVE TO ANN ARBOR
BECAUSE THEY LIKE ANN ARBOR.
THEY DON'T WANT ANN ARBOR TO
BECOME SOMETHING COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT.
THEY DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN
MANHATTAN.
CHICAGO.
THEY DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN
NO TREES, NO GREEN AREAS, NO
CHICAGO.
PROTECTION FOR THOSE THEY MOVED
NO TREES, NO GREEN AREAS, NO
HERE BECAUSE THEY WANT THOSE
PROTECTION FOR THOSE THEY MOVED
THINGS.
HERE BECAUSE THEY WANT THOSE
AND THE BIGGEST CLAIM HERE THAT
THINGS.
WE'RE GOING TO SOMEHOW COME UP
AND THE BIGGEST CLAIM HERE THAT
WITH LOW COST HOUSING.
WE'RE GOING TO SOMEHOW COME UP
SO DO THE MATH IN YOUR HEAD
WITH LOW COST HOUSING.
THIS IS NOT ROCKET SCIENCE
SO DO THE MATH IN YOUR HEAD
MATH.
THIS IS NOT ROCKET SCIENCE
HOW DO YOU BUY PROPERTIES THAT
MATH.
ARE HALF A MILLION TO A MILLION
HOW DO YOU BUY PROPERTIES THAT
DOLLARS TEAR THE BUILDING DOWN
ARE HALF A MILLION TO A MILLION
THAT THERE IS CURRENTLY THERE
DOLLARS TEAR THE BUILDING DOWN
AND THEN PUT UP A NEW STRUCTURE
THAT THERE IS CURRENTLY THERE
THAT'S NOT GOING TO WORK OUT
AND THEN PUT UP A NEW STRUCTURE
THOUGH.
THAT'S NOT GOING TO WORK OUT
IS THERE GOING TO BE EXPENSIVE
THOUGH.
UNITS?
IS THERE GOING TO BE EXPENSIVE
AND I THINK WHEN I WAS HERE
UNITS?
LAST TIME A GENTLEMAN GOT UP
AND I THINK WHEN I WAS HERE
AND SPOKE ABOUT IN HIS
LAST TIME A GENTLEMAN GOT UP
NEIGHBORHOOD FIVE PROPERTIES
AND SPOKE ABOUT IN HIS
HAVE BEEN BOUGHT.
NEIGHBORHOOD FIVE PROPERTIES
THEY WERE ABOUT A HALF MILLION
HAVE BEEN BOUGHT.
DOLLARS EACH.
THEY WERE ABOUT A HALF MILLION
A DEVELOPER CAME IN, PUT I'LL
DOLLARS EACH.
CALL THEM DUPLEX CONDOS, TWO
A DEVELOPER CAME IN, PUT I'LL
CONDOS AND THEY'RE NOW ONE
CALL THEM DUPLEX CONDOS, TWO
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS.
CONDOS AND THEY'RE NOW ONE
YEAH, THAT'S AFFORDABLE ALL DAY
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS.
LONG.
YEAH, THAT'S AFFORDABLE ALL DAY
YEAH.
LONG.
IT'S NOT GOING TO WORK OUT
YEAH.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET ANY LOW
IT'S NOT GOING TO WORK OUT
COST HOUSING.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET ANY LOW
ALL YOU'RE GOING TO DO IS
COST HOUSING.
YOU'RE OPENING UP OUR
ALL YOU'RE GOING TO DO IS
RESIDENTIAL AREAS TO RESTRICTED
YOU'RE OPENING UP OUR
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WILL BE BY
RESIDENTIAL AREAS TO RESTRICTED
OUTSIDE DEVELOPERS.
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WILL BE BY
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IRREPARABLE
OUTSIDE DEVELOPERS.
DAMAGE TO OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IRREPARABLE
THEN IT'S DONE.
DAMAGE TO OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AND
YOU CAN'T FIX IT.
THEN IT'S DONE.
THANK YOU.
YOU CAN'T FIX IT.
THANK YOU, MR. BILL.
THANK YOU.
HELLO
.
I COMMISSION MEMBERS.
I'M ALAN HOUCK AND I LIVE PART
OF THE YEAR IN CHURCHILL DOWNS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE REST
OF THE YEAR ON U OF M CAMPUS.
I AM SURPRISED U OF M STUDENT
WHO IS ALSO A LIFELONG ANN
ARBOR RESIDENT PLEASE DON'T PUT
TOO MANY RESTRICTIONS ON
DENSITY IN THE CITY.
I WOULD LIKE TO CONTINUE LIVING
HERE EVEN AFTER I GRADUATE AND
CAN NO LONGER LIVE ON YOU EVMS
CAMPUS OR IN MY PARENTS HOUSE.
I DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO MOVE
AWAY FROM A CITY THAT I LOVE
AND HAVE GROWN UP AND JUST TO
BE ABLE TO AFFORD A HOUSE
APARTMENT OF MY OWN.
THANK YOU.
THANK COMMISSIONERS.
HELLO I'M PETER.
I LIVE ON YOUR OWN COURT HERE
IN THE CITY AND I'M GOING TO
SHARE MY CORE VALUES MY MY
SINGULAR CORE VALUE IS MY
FAMILY AND THEY CAME HERE
TONIGHT AND I WANT TO ASK YOU
TO PLEASE AVOID RESTRICTIONS ON
THESE TRANSITION ZONES THAT
WILL LIMIT DENSITY.
WE NEED MORE UNITS THERE AND
EVERYWHERE IN THE CITY TO KEEP
HOUSING PRICES IN CHECK SO THAT
PEOPLE LIKE MY DAUGHTER DON'T
HAVE TO MOVE AWAY IN ORDER TO
BE ABLE TO AFFORD TO START
THEIR OWN LIVES.
I JUST HEARD SOMEONE SAY THAT
IF PEOPLE WANT TO BE NEAR ANN
ARBOR THEY CAN LIVE OUTSIDE
OF THE CITY LIMITS AND WHEN I
THINK ABOUT THAT APPLYING TO MY
OWN KIDS THAT THAT REALLY HURTS
AND DON'T DON'T TELL ME WHERE
MY KIDS SHOULD LIVE AND DON'T
TELL THEM EITHER.
SO PLEASE LET'S LET'S TRY AND
OPEN UP ANN ARBOR TO EVERYONE
AND ESPECIALLY TO YOUNG PEOPLE
SO THAT THEY CAN START THEIR
LIVES HERE AND STAY HERE IF
THEY CHOOSE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HELLO MY NAME IS MAGGIE FRY AND
I LIVE ON COOK AVENUE AT THE
TOP OF THE STEEPEST HILL IN ANN
HARBOR AND I'M NOT AN EXPERT ON
URBAN PLANNING NOR MY
PARTICULARLY WELL CONNECTED TO
OTHERS IN THE ROOM I HAVE THREE
YOUNG CHILDREN AND I TALK WITH
THEM FREQUENTLY ABOUT HOW I
THINK ANN ARBOR WILL LOOK VERY
DIFFERENT WHEN THEY ARE IN HIGH
SCHOOL.
I BELIEVE THAT WITH THE CLIMATE
CRISIS THAT WE FACE THAT TRANS
TRANSFORMATIVE URBAN REZONING
IS INEVITABLE AND THIS PLAN
REPRESENTS THE KIND OF FUTURE
THAT I TALK ABOUT WITH MY
CHILDREN LAST YEAR I TOOK MY
DAUGHTER MY OLDEST DAUGHTER WHO
WAS SIX AT THE TIME TO ONE
OF THE LIBRARY SESSIONS ABOUT
THE PLAN.
SHE DIDN'T GET ALL THE DETAILS
BUT SHE STILL REMEMBERS IT AND
SHE REMEMBERS SOME OF THE
LESSONS THAT SHE LEARNED ABOUT
CITIES AND HOUSING AND HOW WE
CAN BETTER MAKE SPACE FOR EACH
.
I THINK THAT SLOW URBAN POLICY
IS A PROBLEM FOR CITIES ALL
AROUND THE COUNTRY AND THAT
WE'RE FACING URGENT PROBLEMS
THAT NEED URGENT SOLUTIONS AND
SO DELAYING THE PLAN TO MATCH
THE SLOW TIMELINES OF OTHER
CITIES DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO ME
.
I THINK THE PLAN IS BASED ON
RESEARCH AND CREATIVE
ENGAGEMENT ABOUT THE BEST WAYS
TO GROW CITIES FOR DIVERSE
POPULATIONS AND I THINK IT'S
REALLY CAREFULLY COMMUNICATED
SO THAT NOT EXPERTS LIKE ME CAN
UNDERSTAND.
BUT THAT IS NOT THE SAME AS
SIMPLISTIC AND I WANT TO USE
THE REMAINDER OF MY TIME TO
REITERATE SOME OF THE COMMENTS
ABOUT NOT CREATING NEW
SUBDISTRICTS BECAUSE I THINK
THAT THAT COULD FURTHER DELAY
SOME OF THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF REFORM THAT I THINK IS
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR THAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK HELLO.
HELLO, I'M JIM SWANSON LIVE ON
KIMBERLE ROAD.
I'VE ACTUALLY LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE
OK AND SO AS YOU CAN SEE I AM
FOR PAUSING TO PLAN AND I
DIDN'T REALLY FIND OUT ABOUT IT
UNTIL JUST THE LAST FEW MONTHS
AND SO I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
REALLY BEEN WIDELY DISCUSSED.
I AM CONCERNED ABOUT NUMBER ONE
I THINK THERE IS CONFLICT
OF INTEREST.
IT IF THERE ARE A LOT OF REAL
ESTATE PEOPLE ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IT KIND OF HAS A
MUSKY KIND OF SMELL TO IT.
YOU KNOW, DOEGE YOU KNOW, MUSK
GOING IN AND BEING IN CONTROL
OF THE AGENCIES, THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT THAT OVERSEE HIS
BUSINESSES.
AND SO I THINK THE PLAN TO
REALLY BE PAUSED.
I THINK THERE IS ROOM FOR FOR
US TO INCREASE DENSITY SOMEWHAT
IN ANN ARBOR.
I'VE LIVED HERE SINCE NINETEEN
SIXTY FIVE.
I CAN TELL YOU THE SKYSCRAPERS
HAVE BEEN GOING UP BUT THE
PRICES ARE NOT COMING DOWN AND
I JUMPED AS ONE OF THOSE
WEBSITES LOOKING AT COST
OF APARTMENTS AND THINGS AND
SEE YOU KNOW LIKE ONE BEDROOM
APARTMENTS COST HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS THREE BEDROOM APARTMENT
IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR ONE POINT
FIVE MILLION DOLLARS.
IT WAS LIKE EIGHT NINE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET, SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
AND THESE ARE SORT OF NEW YORK
PRICES AND SO AND THEN ALSO
I'VE WATCHED SOME VIDEOS ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN SEATTLE AND
SOME OTHER PLACES WHERE THE
UPSCALING HAS JUST LED TO
HIGHER HIGHER PRICES AND SO FOR
WHATEVER REASON IT APPEARS AND
THERE ARE SOME ACADEMIC PAPERS
THAT SUPPLY AND DEMAND NOT
NECESSARILY WORK IN THE
ECONOMIC ONE OR ONE WAY THAT WE
EXPECT IT TO IN CITIES LIKE ANN
ARBOR, HIGH PRICED CITIES.
AND SO I THINK THAT PLAN SHOULD
BE PAUSED.
LOOK AT WHAT WHAT THE
POPULATION INCREASES ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE BECAUSE I HAVE
READ THAT THE ONES THAT THE
COMMISSION'S BEEN WORKING ON
ARE NOT ACCURATE.
DON'T LINE UP WITH SIMCOCK AND
OTHER ESTIMATES OF POPULATION
INCREASE AND THOSE OF COURSE
ARE VERY IMPORTANT FACTORS.
RIGHT.
AND WE DO NOT WANT TO DESTROY
TURN YOU KNOW, TREE CITY AND
ARBOR INTO YOU KNOW, JUST A
MANHATTAN CUT DOWN ALL THE
TREES AND JUST HAVE TWENTY
STOREY BUILDINGS DO NOT WANT
THAT.
AND SO I THINK THERE'S A
MODERATE SOMETHING IN BETWEEN A
THIRD WAY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
WELL HI MY NAME IS RICHARD
DOCUSIGN.
TWELVE FORTY THREE MARLBORO
WILL DRIVE THE IDEA OF ADDING
BUSINESSES TO NEIGHBORHOODS IS
NOT A GOOD IDEA.
MY FAMILY'S EXPERIENCE IS A
GOOD EXAMPLE.
WHEN WE MOVED INTO OUR HOUSE IN
1973 A NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR HAD A
STAINED GLASS BUSINESS THAT HE
RAN OUT OF A BUILDING IN HIS
BACKYARD.
HE HELD CLASSES AND SOLD
MATERIALS FOR MAKING STAINED
GLASS WINDOWS.
HE WOULD SMELL BLOOD FOR THE
GLASS CHANNELS AND ON ONE
MORNING I CAUGHT HIM DUMPING
WITH THE AID OF AN EMPLOYEE A
VERY HEAVY CONTAINER OF SMELTED
IMPURITIES ON THE GRAVEL ROAD
IN FRONT OF MY HOUSE HAVING A
DEGREE IN BOTH BIOLOGY AND
CHEMISTRY.
I KNEW THE DANGER THAT THESE
TAILINGS POSED AS THEY
CONTAINED IMPURITIES OF HEAVY
METALS.
JUDGING FROM THE DIFFICULTY
THAT THEY WERE HAVING JUST
MOVING IT DOWN THE ROAD, I KNEW
IT CONTAINED LOTS OF LIT.
I SAW THE CITY ATTORNEY WHO WAS
AT THAT TIME IN 1980, BRUCE
LAIDLAW.
HE SOUGHT TO ENFORCE THE ZONING
RESTRICTION OF OPERATING SUCH A
BUSINESS IN A NEIGHBORHOOD IN A
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE EPA BECAME INVOLVED SINCE
CONTAMINATE TOOK PLACE CLOSE TO
A DRAIN WHICH LEADS DIRECTLY
INTO THE LARGE UNDERGROUND
TUNNEL FROM ELLIOTTS CREEK.
THE RESULTS SHOW THAT THE
ROADBED WAS CONTAMINATED WITH
BOTH LEAD AND ARSENIC DOWN AT
LEAST SIX INCHES, INDICATING
THIS WASN'T THE FIRST TIME HE
HAD DEPOSITED WASTE ON THE
ROAD.
THIS LED TO A PROTRACTED CASE
OVER THREE YEARS BEFORE THE
ZIEBA AND THEN THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF WASHTENAW COUNTY
BEFORE JUDGE EDWARD DEEK AND
I'LL GIVE YOU THE FILE NUMBER
IN CASE YOU WANT TO LOOK IT UP.
THIS TOOK PLACE OVER THREE DAYS
AS THE COURT PROCEDURE TOOK
PLACE OVER THREE DAYS STARTING
ON JULY SEVENTEENTH OF EIGHTY
ONE.
I HAVE COPIES OF NOT ONLY THE
COURT CASE BUT THE ZEBA RULINGS
IF YOU'D LIKE TO READ THEM.
WE HAD A YOUNG SON AT THE TIME
WHOSE WHOSE KIDNEYS ENDED UP
BEING SEVERELY DAMAGED.
AGE PLAYS A KEY ROLE IN
EXPOSURE TO HEAVY METALS AND
THIS LED TO MANY TESTS AND
NEUROLOGY VISITS TO HIS YOUNG
LIFE THROUGH CAREFUL DIETING HE
WAS ABLE TO PROLONG THE
INEVITABLE KIDNEY FAILURE WHICH
HAS LED TO A KIDNEY TRANSPLANT
AND NOW BECAUSE OF THE
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS AND THE
COVID ALONG WITH REDUCED
VACCINATION RATES, HE HAS TO BE
VERY CAREFUL OF EXPOSURE TO
OTHERS.
>> THE POINT I HOPE THAT YOU
TAKE FROM THIS IS THAT OPENING
UP NEIGHBORHOODS TO WHAT SEEMS
TO BE BENIGN BUSINESSES COULD
AS IN OUR CASE RESULT IN LIFE
CHANGING EVENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS BRENDAN ROO'S.
I LIVE AT ONE TWENTY SEVEN
FIELD STREET APARTMENT TWO OR
THREE AND I'M HERE IN SUPPORT
THE NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
BEFORE I START I KNOW THERE'S
BEEN SOME DISCUSSION IN THESE
FORUMS ABOUT WHAT CONSTITUTES A
REAL ANN ARBOR OR A REAL
NEIGHBOR.
I'D LIKE IT ON THE RECORD THAT
I AM CURRENTLY WEARING
BIRKENSTOCKS WITH SOCKS AND I
JUST GOT BACK FROM BIRDING TRIP
SO THEY GOT VERY STRONG AND ARE
A BONA I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF THEM.
I THINK PEOPLE HAVE BEEN MISLED
ABOUT WHAT THE PURPOSE OF NEW
DENSITY IS.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS THE NEW
BUILDINGS THEMSELVES ARE GOING
TO BE DEEPLY AFFORDABLE.
IT'S THAT IT WILL HELP IMPROVE
AFFORDABILITY OF THE EXISTING
BUILDINGS AROUND THEM.
I'D LIKE TO CONSIDER A
COUNTERFACTUAL A WORLD OR MAYBE
ANN ARBOR NEVER APPROVE ANY
OF THE HIGH RISES THAT EXIST
CURRENTLY DOWNTOWN BUT THE
UNIVERSITY CONTINUED TO STILL
GROW AT THE SAME RATE THAT HAS
IN THAT CASE THE STUDENTS
WOULDN'T JUST LIVE OUTSIDE
OF ANN ARBOR.
THEY'D BE IN THESE SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS THAT A LOT
OF THESE PEOPLE ARE WORRIED
ABOUT PROTECTING THOSE STUDENTS
WOULD HAVE SPRAWLED ALL OVER
THE PLACE.
THEY'D BE BUYING UP AND BIDDING
UP THE PRICES OF ALL THESE
HOMES AND THE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT PEOPLE ARE STILL VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT PROTECTING
WOULD BE MUCH WORSE OFF AND
MUCH MORE FILLED WITH STUDENTS.
AND I THINK THAT ONE THING THAT
THIS PLAN DOES REALLY WELL IS
THAT IT WILL CREATE DISTRICTS
WHERE WE CAN BUILD DENSELY
WITHOUT IMPACTING THOSE SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS AS MUCH I
KNOW A LOT OF THOSE FOLKS AT
THESE MEETINGS TEND TO TALK
ABOUT LOSING THE ATARA THAT
THEY GREW UP WITH.
BUT IF WE STAY ON THIS PATH
OF STAGNATION, THERE WON'T BE
ANYONE GROWING UP IN ANN ARBOR
AT ALL BECAUSE FAMILIES JUST
WON'T BE ABLE TO AFFORD IT.
I'M CURRENTLY A RENTER SO
OBVIOUSLY I WANT TO SEE THE
PRICE OF RENT COME DOWN.
BUT THE SAME PRINCIPLES APPLY
TO HOMES FOR PURCHASE.
LIKE MOST PEOPLE I ASPIRE TO BE
A HOMEOWNER ONE DAY THAT
STARTER HOMES SIMPLY DO NOT
EXIST IN ANN ARBOR BECAUSE
WE'VE BEEN SO STATIC AND OUR
VISION OF WHAT A STARTER HOME
LOOKS LIKE AGAIN JUST TALK TO
YOUNG PEOPLE AND FAMILIES.
WE DON'T ALL WANT A DETACHED
HOME WITH A PICKET FENCE, A SEA
OF WELL MANICURED GRASS AND A
TWO CAR GARAGE PLENTY PEOPLE DO
WANT THAT BUT SOME OF US DON'T.
WE JUST WANT A PLACE TO CALL
OUR OWN NEIGHBORS TO TALK TO
AND PLACES WHERE WE CAN WALK
AND GATHER WITH FRIENDS
NOBODY'S SAYING THAT YOU CAN'T
LIVE IN A SINGLE FAMILY HOME IF
YOU WANT TO.
LET'S JUST MAKE OTHER MORE
AFFORDABLE OPTIONS LEGAL FOR
THE REST OF US IN PURSUIT THAT
VISION.
I ALSO ECHO OTHERS SUPPORT FOR
EXPANDING THE PROPOSED
TRANSITION AND HELP DISTRICTS
SPECIFICALLY TO INCLUDE ALL
PROPERTIES NOT CURRENTLY ZONED
ARE ONE OR TWO.
I ALSO SUPPORT REMOVING HIGH
CAPS SUBDISTRICTS AND OTHER
ARBITRARY USE RESTRICTIONS
WITHIN THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
.
THIS WILL GIVE YOUNG FAMILIES
MORE OPTIONS TO DECIDE HOW THEY
WANT TO LIVE WHILE ALSO
RELIEVING DEVELOPMENTAL
PRESSURE IN LOW RISE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IN SHORT, THANK YOU FOR ALL
YOUR HARD WORK THROUGH THIS
PROCESS AND LET'S GET THIS
THING ACROSS THE FINISH LINE.
I KNOW PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED
THAT THEY FEEL THAT THERE
HAVEN'T BEEN VOICES HEARD BUT I
THINK THAT THE MOST
REPRESENTATIVE WAY WE'VE RAISED
OUR VOICES THROUGH ELECTIONS
AND THE ENTIRE POPULATION
OF ANN ARBOR HAS OVERWHELMINGLY
ELECTED THE MOST PRO HOUSING
CITY COUNCIL IN HISTORY.
SO I THINK WE NEED TO JUST PUSH
IT THROUGH AND GET THIS DONE.
>> THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME
.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD.
COMMISSIONER LEE MEMBERS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION I SPOKE
BEFORE YOU BEFORE FROM MY
PERSONAL THOUGHTS BUT I'M HERE
WEARING ANOTHER HAT THE
COALITION FOR ACTION ON
REMEDIATION TAXING HARD IS A
PARTNERSHIP OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS AND CITIZENS TO
LOOK AT STRATEGIES TO ADDRESS
THE GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION
FROM THE INDUSTRY SOLVENT ONE
POINT FOUR DIOXIN RELEASED BY
GOVERNMENT SCIENTISTS INC. THE
GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION HAS
EXPANDED IN WASHTENAW COUNTY TO
AN AREA OVER THREE MILES LONG
AND ONE MILE WIDE.
AS EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBER
OF CARD I'M COMMUNICATING WITH
YOU REGARDING COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN CURRENTLY PENDING
BEFORE YOU BUY THE PROPOSED
PLAN CONTAINS SIGNIFICANT
LANGUAGE REGARDING GROWTH AND
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF CITY ISSUES
AND DISCUSSIONS OF NATURAL
FEATURES.
IT MAKES NO MENTION AT ALL THAT
PORTION THE ONE POINT FOUR DACS
IN PLUME THAT'S BEEN EXPANDING
INTO THE WESTERN PART OF THE
CITY FROM S TOWNSHIP AND MOVING
UNDERGROUND INTO THE ALLENS
CREEK DRAIN.
THE PLUME HAS AFFECTED SOUT
TOWNSHIP WELLS AND MAY AFFECT A
COUPLE CITIES AND OUR UTILITIES
IN OTHER WORDS IMPACTS THE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THE CITY SHOULD TAKE A STAND
AND CONTINUE TO EXPAND THE SIZE
OF THE PROHIBITION ZONE AND
PROVIDE REMEDIATION, SAYS
SIMPLY PUSHING THE POLLUTION
INTO THE PROHIBITION ZONE AND
SENDING IT DOWNSTREAM TO OUR
NEIGHBORS.
WE BELIEVE A CURRENT LIKELY
DELINEATED MAP OF THE PLUME
SHOULD BE INCLUDED INTO THE
DOCUMENT AND THE LANGUAGE
INCLUDED IN THE DOCUMENT THAT
POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SHOULD
PROVIDE NO RISK TO HOMEOWNERS
VIA VAPOR INTRUSION AND
CONTAMINATION OF SOILS ON NEW
SITES.
THE FORMER MICHIGAN AND MY
PROPERTY ABUTTING DOLF PARK ON
THE WESTERN SIDE OF HER SISTER
LAKE ARE IMPORTANT POTENTIAL
LARGER PARCELS TO BE DEVELOPED
IN THE CITY OR REDEVELOPED.
IN ADDITION, AS MENTIONED, THE
PLUME IS CURRENTLY SPREADING
NORTHWARD INTO WELLS AND DECILE
TOWNSHIP THIS HAS POTENTIAL TO
CONTAMINATE BARTON PRAND BARTON
POND THE SOURCE OF THE CITY'S
DRINKING WATER.
WE BELIEVE THIS LANGUAGE AND
MAPPING TO THE BEST ABILITY
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN ANY
FINAL DOCUMENT BEFORE OUR FINAL
REVIEW FROM YOU AND CITY
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING MY
REMARKS AND MR. LINNET, WE WILL
HAVE A HARD COPY TO YOU AND TO
THE COMMISSION AS WELL AND
WE'LL PROBABLY GO THROUGH SOME
MAPS AND DOCUMENTATION AS WELL.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS RONALD KARNIG.
I'VE LIVED AT 12 15 WINSTONE
WARD TWO SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY
EIGHT PREVIOUSLY MY WIFE AND I
LIVED IN NEW YORK CITY AND
BROOKLINE MASSACHUSETTS.
WE MOVED HERE BECAUSE WE VALUE
THE SMALL CITY CHARM OF ANN
ARBOR ALTHOUGH I SUPPORT PLANS
TO HAVE DENSIFIED HOUSING
DOWNTOWN AND ALONG MAJOR
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS I'M
STRONGLY OPPOSED TO DENSIFYING
SINGLE FAMILY HOME
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE THAT
WOULD DESTROY THIS SMALL CITY
FEEL OF ANN ARBOR THAT WE LOVE
AND THAT ATTRACTED US HERE.
THIRTY SEVEN YEARS AGO ALLOWING
THREE STOREY MULTI THREE STOREY
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENCES WILL
BRING NOISE AND TRAFFIC.
IT'LL RESULT IN LOSS OF TREES,
STRESS, LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE
ETC. ETC. ONCE THIS PROCESS
STARTS, IMPORTANTLY THERE WILL
BE NOTHING TO STOP IT UNTIL
EVENTUALLY SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
CEASED TO EXIST AND THE SMALL
CITY CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR IS
DESTROYED BY QUESTION.
THE ASSUMPTIONS THAT UNDERLIE
THE NEED FOR SUCH A POTENTIALLY
MASSIVE INCREASE IN HOUSING THE
POPULATION GROWTH ESTIMATES IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SEEM
WILDLY HIGH AND UNSUPPORTED BY
ANY REAL DATA.
IMPORTANTLY, THE ERA OF GROWTH
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ESPECIALLY AT THE MEDICAL
SCHOOL IS LIKELY OVER DUE TO
MASSIVE CUTS IN THE FEDERAL
BUDGET INCLUDING THE NIH AND IT
WOULD NOT BE UNREASONABLE TO
EXPECT AN ACTUAL DECREASE IN
THE NUMBER OF UNMANNED
EMPLOYEES.
THIS WAS NOT ACCOUNTED FOR IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BECAUSE
THE DECREASE IN FEDERAL DOLLARS
IS TOO RECENT NOW DOES NOT SEEM
TO BE A WISE TIME TO FORGE
AHEAD WITH SUCH A RADICAL PLAN
THAT WILL PERMANENTLY CHANGE
THE CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR.
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CITES
FOUR OTHER CITIES THAT HAVE
DENSIFIED HOUSING SEATTLE,
PORTLAND, AUSTIN, MINNEAPOLIS
BUT THOSE ARE MUCH LARGER THAN
ANN ARBOR FOUR TO NINE TIMES
THE POPULATION OF ANN ARBOR.
THEIR MEDIUM SIZED CITIES WITH
A MUCH DIFFERENT CHARACTER THAN
ANN ARBOR, WHICH IS A SMALL
CITY AND A GOOGLE SEARCH
CLEARLY SHOWS ALL FOUR STILL
HAVE HOUSING SHORTAGES.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR I SUPPORT
HIGH RISE HIGH DENSITY HOUSING
DOWNTOWN AND IN MAJOR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS AND THAT THIS IS
CONSISTENT WITH EIGHT TWO ZERO
IN THE PUBLIC TRANSIT USE WOULD
BE FACILITATED BY A SPECIFIC
PROPOSAL IS TO PAUSE THE
DENSIFICATION OF SINGLE FAMILY
HOME NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE REST OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN MAY WELL SUFFICE TO
ACHIEVE HOUSING GOALS IN THE
CURRENT REALITY OF GROWTH
PROJECTIONS.
LET'S NOT UNNECESSARILY DESTROY
THE CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS GREG MONROE.
I LIVE AT TWELVE SIXTY
UNBENDING ROAD SO I HAVE LIVED
IN ANN ARBOR FOR ALMOST FORTY
YEARS.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED HERE.
I EVEN RECALL BEING A PAPER BOY
AND DELIVERING HER NEWS WHICH
IS AN ANECDOTE I BRING UP TO
KIND OF SPEAK TO THE FACT THAT
I WAS NOT MADE AWARE OF THE
PLAN OR ANYTHING THAT WAS
HAPPENING AROUND THIS EVEN THE
FEW YEARS THAT I LIVED OUTSIDE
OF THE CITY.
YOU KNOW MY MY FATHER IS AN
ARCHITECT AND A BUILDER.
MY MOTHER WORKS FOR THE
UNIVERSITY.
WE'RE VERY SORT OF WE'RE VERY
INTERESTED IN THE HOUSING STOCK
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND IT WAS
JUST OVER DINNER MAYBE LAST
WEEK THAT I DON'T KNOW ABOUT
THIS AND I BRING UP THE ENTIRE
BURNOOSE EXAMPLE.
I JUST THE FOLKS WHO SAY THAT
THEY WERE NOT MADE AWARE
OF THIS I JUST HOPE THAT WE
TAKE THEIR WHAT ARE
COMMUNICATING IN THEIR
STANDPOINT GENUINELY AND
HONESTLY BECAUSE I TRULY DO NOT
KNOW ABOUT THIS UNTIL A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO.
SO I'M HERE I'M ASKING TO PAUSE
THE PLAN BECAUSE WHAT I HAVE
BEEN MADE AWARE OF JUST IN THE
FOUR YEARS SINCE I'VE LIVED
HERE BUT MOST RECENTLY POST
PANDEMIC MAYBE A LITTLE BIT
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC IS I HAVE
SEEN THE INFLUENCE
OF DEVELOPERS ON THE THE CITY
LOOK AND FEEL AND THE LANDSCAPE
AND THAT IS NOT ALWAYS A BAD
THING.
>> I GRANT THAT.
BUT WHAT I THINK IT JUST IN
TERMS OF CONSTRUCTIVE FEEDBACK
FOR THE PLAN IS I WOULD REALLY
ASK THE COMMISSION TO CLEARLY
ARTICULATE AND DEFINE THE GOALS
OF THE PLAN BUT ALSO HOW A PLAN
WILL ACTUALLY ACHIEVE THESE
GOALS.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE I THINK EVERYONE HERE
OR AT LEAST I SHOULDN'T SPEAK
FOR EVERYONE BUT I THINK MOST
FOLKS CAN GET BEHIND
SUSTAINABILITY AND AFFORDABLE
AFFORDABILITY AND I ALSO THINK
THAT I PERSONALLY AM FOR
DENSITY.
RIGHT.
BUT I THINK WHAT CONCERNS ME IS
WHAT IS PLAN FEELS LIKE IS IT
IT FLOATS A LOT OF THESE THESE
NOBLE LOFTY AMBITIONS BUT THEN
IT ALSO IS COUPLED WITH SORT
OF THIS LAISSEZ FAIRE NO
REGULATION FOR DEVELOPERS.
LET'S JUST HOPE FOR THE BEST.
RIGHT.
AND WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO
UNDERSTAND FROM THE PLAN IS
EXACTLY HOW IT'S GOING TO
ACHIEVE THE GOALS AND THAT'S
WHAT I FIND LACKING.
I UNDERSTAND THAT WHEN YOU'RE
TRYING TO PRODUCE SOMETHING FOR
THE PUBLIC THAT SOMETIMES
OVERSIMPLIFICATION IS NEEDED.
BUT I THINK THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT I THINK WOULD BE REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR FOLKS BECAUSE IN
MY EXPERIENCE I THINK
DEVELOPERS ARE ALWAYS GOING TO
GO FOR MARGIN.
AND SO WHAT I HAVE SEEN IS AND
I ALSO ECHO THOSE COMMENTS
ABOUT ONE OF THE THINGS I VALUE
MOST ABOUT THE CITY IS THE
CHARACTER THAT'S WITHIN ITS
NEIGHBORHOODS, WITHIN ITS
HOUSING STOCK AND I HAVE SEEN
FIRSTHAND HOW DISRUPTIVE IT CAN
BE WHEN A DEVELOPER BUYS A
PIECE OF LAND EIGHT SECONDS
LEFT AND THEN DEMOLISHES IT
RIGHT.
AND SO MAYBE THAT NOW IT
CHANGES THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND SO I THINK I'M JUST ASKING
THE COUNCIL TO REALLY TAKE A
STEP BACK AND TAKE A SCALPEL TO
THIS PLAN RATHER THAN A
SLEDGEHAMMER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CITY STAFF MY NAME IS SARAH
BESUITED PRONOUNCED CICCONE.
I'M A THIRD YEAR DOCTORAL
CANDIDATE IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF EPIDEMIOLOGY HERE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I CURRENTLY LIVE AT ONE THREE
NINE ASHLEY MILLS DRIVE WITH MY
PARTNER AND I PREVIOUSLY RENTED
IN ANN ARBOR AND I SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
TWO WEEKS AGO I MADE MY FIRST
PUBLIC COMMENT EVER AT THIS
PODIUM AND DURING IT I SPOKE
ABOUT HOW I'M TRAINED AS A
SCIENTIST AND AN EPIDEMIOLOGY
AS YOU CAN SEE THAT IN THE
PREVIOUS STREAM AND I
REFERENCED THE GROWING BODY
OF EVIDENCE THAT ALI DESCRIBES
HOW OUR NEIGHBORHOODS AFFECT
HUMAN HEALTH AND WELL-BEING BUT
ALSO HOW IT INCREASED DENSITY
DROPS HOUSING COSTS.
THERE ARE DOZENS OF PEER
REVIEWED AND SCIENTIFICALLY
ROBUST STUDIES THAT SUPPORT
THIS CONCLUSION WHICH I'VE
HAPPILY SHARED WITH THE
COMMISSION AND I CAN HAPPILY
SHARE WITH ANYONE ELSE INTEREST
IN THE DATA CONSISTENTLY AND
REPEATEDLY SHOWS THAT INCREASED
HOUSING ACROSS CITIES AROUND
THE WORLD DROPS PRICES.
THE DATA CONSISTENTLY AND
REPEATEDLY SHOWS THAT WE IN ANN
ARBOR ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS
AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO DO SO
IF WE DO NOT HAVE A BROAD AND
INCLUSIVE PLAN AS I IS
PREPARING THESE COMMENTS I WAS
THINKING A LOT ABOUT HOW I'M A
SCIENTIST AND HOW I THINK A LOT
ABOUT SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATION.
SOMETIMES DATA NUMBERS WORK FOR
ME BUT THEY DON'T ALWAYS WORK
FOR EVERYONE.
SOMETIMES THEY DON'T RESONATE
THE IDEA THAT MORE THAN EIGHTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE COMMUTE INTO
ANN ARBOR EVERY DAY OUR NURSES
ARE TEACHERS OR SANITATION
WORKERS THAT RESONATES FOR SOME
PEOPLE BUT NOT FOR EVERYONE.
AND I'VE ALSO BEEN DOING A LOT
OF THINKING ABOUT PHILOSOPHY
AND ONE OF THOSE THINGS IS
THINKING A LOT ABOUT
SELFISHNESS AND GENEROSITY AND
IDEAS AROUND HOW THAT CAN
SOMETIMES RESONATE WITH FOLKS
THINGS KINDNESS AND COMPASSION.
AND SO I ASKED OF THE PREVIOUS
TIME I SPOKE AND I ASKED PEOPLE
AGAIN TODAY WHEN ARE WE
ACTUALLY AFRAID BY DENYING OR
PAUSING OR RESTRICTING THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MONTHS
OF SPACE AND TIME FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT AND ENGAGEMENT.
AND I'VE SHARED MINE IN THOSE
SPACES FOR THOSE WHO FEEL LIKE
THEY'VE JUST CAUGHT UP, THAT'S
OK.
THEY'RE STILL MONTHS IN WHICH
COMMENTS ARE AVAILABLE AND YOU
CAN MAKE COMMENT.
CITY STAFF HAS WORKED
TIRELESSLY TO ENSURE THAT THE
PUBLIC IS AWARE OF THIS PLAN
AND THERE'S STILL TIME FOR YOU
TO SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS.
AND SO I ASK AGAIN WHAT ARE YOU
ACTUALLY AFRAID?
IS YOUR FEAR GROUNDED IN
EVIDENCE OR AND I SAY THIS WITH
ALL OF IN THE WORLD IS IT
ROOTED IN FEAR OF ANOTHER OR
THE OTHER THE PEOPLE WHO DON'T
LOOK LIKE YOU OR SOUND LIKE YOU
OF SO-CALLED COLLEGE PARTIES
AND RED SOLO CUPS?
I WANT TO ECHO OR I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE THAT THAT FEAR IS
VERY UNDERSTANDABLE BUT IT
ECHOES THE RHETORIC OF RACIAL
COVENANTS THAT HAVE
HISTORICALLY KEPT PEOPLE LIKE
ME, PEOPLE OF COLOR AND OTHER
MARGINALIZED PEOPLE OUT
OF PLACES LIKE ANN ARBOR.
AND SO I ASK AGAIN IS THIS FEAR
THE PLAN DO YOU THAT YOU HAVE
FUNDAMENTALLY A SELFISHNESS
THAT MIGHT BE BORN OUT OF FEAR?
I REALLY HOPE NOT.
I I AM A FIRM BELIEVER THAT AS
YOUR NEIGHBOR AS A FELLOW
CITIZEN, I KNOW THAT YOUR WORLD
AND MY WORLD AREN'T DEEPLY
INTERTWINED, THAT MY SUCCESS AS
A FELLOW CITIZEN IS NOT
INHERENTLY GOING TO REDUCE
YOURS.
AND GUESS WHAT?
I'M AFRAID TO I HATE CHANGE BUT
I WAS RAISED TO SAY IF THERE'S
NOT ENOUGH FOOD AT THE TABLE,
LET'S MAKE MORE FOR OTHERS.
SO I ASK THE COMMISSION PLEASE
LET OUR NEIGHBOR GROW, LET OUR
NEIGHBOR FLOURISH AND DO SO BY
ALLOWING MORE HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING ANN ARBOR.
MY NAME IS JOE ZILKHA I LIVE AT
NINETEEN TWENTY WOODBURY DRIVE
AND I LIVE WORK AND RIDE THE
BUS HERE IN ANN ARBOR SPEAKING
TO YOU IN SUPPORT OF THE
DOWNTOWN HUB AND MIXED USE
ZONES ON THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
AND ALLOWING GREATER HIGH
DENSITY AND LESS RESTRICTION IN
THE HUB AND TRANSITION AND
DOWNTOWN AREAS.
THESE ARE EXACTLY THE AREAS
OF THE CITY THAT WE SHOULD BE
BUILDING TALLER HOUSING ALONG
MAJOR CORRIDORS NEAR JOBS NEAR
CAMPUS BOTH SERVICED BY TRANSIT
AND AWAY FROM LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE NEED MORE OF THESE BECAUSE
THESE TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTS
WILL HELP SOLVE OUR HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS CRISES IN
FROM THE TOP DOWN AND THE
BOTTOM UP TOP OUT OF COURSE BY
INCREASING THE SUPPLY OF UNITS
TO MEET OUR VERY HIGH DEMAND
PUSHING UP OUR VERY LOW VACANCY
RATES AND GIVING RENTERS AND
HOME BUYERS MORE POWER IN THE
RENTAL AND HOUSING MARKETS
RESPECTIVELY.
AND CRUCIALLY FROM THE BOTTOM
UP GENERATING MORE PROPERTY TAX
REVENUE FOR THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND THANKS TO VOTERS
ACROSS THE IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM
WE'RE HERE TONIGHT WHO CAME
TOGETHER IN TWENTY TWENTY TO
PASS THAT MILLAGE
OVERWHELMINGLY IN TWENTY
TWENTY.
THE HARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
NEEDS AS MUCH MONEY AS POSSIBLE
IN THAT FUND TO BUILD
SUBSIDIZED HOUSING FOR THE
FOLKS IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO NEED
IT MOST.
THUS WE HAVE NO MORE TIME TO
LOSE IN ADDITION TO THE HUB AND
DOWNTOWN HOMES ARE ALREADY
SERVED BY OUR CURRENT PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.
IF WE GET THE LAND USE RIGHT IN
THESE AREAS WE CAN UNLOCK THE
FULL POTENTIAL OF THE TRIPLE
ATUS LONG TERM TRANSIT VISION.
THE RIDE TWENTY FORTY FIVE.
SO WHAT IS THE RIDE?
TWENTY FORTY FIVE THANKS TO ANN
ARBOR VOTERS ALSO
OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVING THE
TWENTY TWENTY TWO BUS MILEAGE
THE RISE LONG RANGE PLAN RIGHT
HERE RIGHT NOW ENVISIONS A
FUTURE WITH ENHANCED TRANSIT
SERVICES CONNECTING ALL OF THE
DOWNTOWN AND HUB DISTRICTS TO
EACH OTHER WITH THE FOLLOWING
IMPROVEMENTS BUS RAPID TRANSIT
LINES, HIGH FREQUENCY SERVICES
WITH BUSSES RUNNING EVERY 10 TO
15 MINUTES AND AT MOST EVERY 30
MINUTES IMPROVE ACCESSIBILITY
FOR SENIORS AND THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES, EXTENDED SERVICE
HOURS AND CRUCIALLY
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
INCLUDING NEW TRANSIT HUBS
ESSENTIALLY MINI BUS STATIONS
IN EACH OF THE ATC ONE OR HUB
DISTRICTS THERE ON THE LAND USE
MAP AT ST. AND EISENHOWER MAPLE
AND JACKSON PLYMOUTH GREEN
CARPETED ELSWORTH A NEW WHITE
WHITY IN YPSILANTI AND FINALLY
AN EXPANDED BLAK TRANSIT CENTER
WHEN THE COMPLETION OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
BY THE ANNENBERG HOUSING
COMMISSION AND RELATED MIDWEST
ON THE FORMER WILMONT WHICH I
BELIEVE STARTS LATER THIS YEAR
BY ALLOWING DENSE DEVELOPMENT
IN THESE ZONES WE MAKE IT
POSSIBLE FOR MORE RESIDENTS TO
LIVE COLOR LIGHT LIKE I DO OR
LIKE CAR FREE LIKE OTHERS HAVE
SAID BEFORE AND HELP EVERYONE
TRANSIT RIDERS, PEDESTRIANS,
CYCLISTS AND YES EVEN MOTORISTS
BY REDUCING TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS,
CARBON EMISSIONS AND CREATING
VIBRANT AND WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THESE ARE ALL THINGS THAT WE
CAN ALL GET BEHIND.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
PRINCIPAL THREE FIVE SIX FIVE
FOXHUNTING DRIVE.
I'VE LIVED THERE FOR FORTY
SEVEN YEARS SINCE WE BUILT OUR
PASSIVE SOLAR HOUSE.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE FOR
THEIR SERVICE.
I'M NOT HERE TO ADVOCATE FOR OR
AGAINST THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
.
I'M HERE TO SAY ARE WE READY TO
IMPLEMENT THE COMPLEX
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
DO WE HAVE SAFE SYSTEMS FOR OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE?
AND I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A
FEW EXAMPLES.
LAST WEEK ON WEDNESDAY I DROVE
DOWN GLACIER EASTBOUND AND I
LOOKED TO SEE IF TRAFFIC WAS
COMING SOUTHBOUND ON HURON
PARKWAY.
IT'S VERY FAST BUT I COULDN'T
SEE BECAUSE THERE WAS AN
EXCAVATOR AND A TRAILER IN THE
RIGHT TURN LANE.
SO I SAID NOT MY BUSINESS.
I WAS CAREFUL.
I WENT HOME THE NEXT DAY SAME
THING HAPPENED.
IT WAS NIGHT BUT I COUNTED THE
HEADLIGHTS COMING.
I WAITED UNTIL THE HEADLIGHTS
PASSED.
I THOUGHT I'M SAFE.
LET'S GO ON THE THIRD DAY I'M
COMING AND I WAS ACTUALLY GOING
THE OPPOSITE WAY BUT I SEE ALL
THESE CARS LINED UP BECAUSE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
GETTING OUT AND I GO BY AND
IT'S LIKE HOLY FOUL LANGUAGE.
SOMETHING HAS TO BE DONE SO I
MAKE A U-TURN AND I GO BACK AND
I TELL THEM WHO I AM, THE
CONSTRUCTION PEOPLE AND I SAID
I USED TO BE ON CITY COUNCIL
AND YOU'RE VIOLATING AT LEAST
SIX CITY ORDINANCES AND THEY
LOOKED AT ME THEY LISTEN TO
THEY AGREED WITH ME.
THEY MADE THE CHANGES I ASK FOR
BUT THEY SHEEPISH SHEEPISHLY
SAID THE CITY APPROVED THIS
PLAN.
NOW THERE WERE A NUMBER OF OSHA
VIOLATIONS BUT I'M NOT AN
EXPERT IN THAT AREA SO I DIDN'T
MENTION IT.
BUT WHAT REALLY SET ME OFF IS
THAT THEY HAD ONE OF THEIR
EMPLOYEES OUT IN THE MIDDLE
OF YOUR ON PARKWAY DIRECTING
TRAFFIC WITHOUT AVAST WITHOUT A
FLAG.
THEY WERE TRYING TO DO WHAT WAS
RIGHT AND SAVE LIVES BUT THAT
WAS NOT THE SOLUTION.
SO I'VE GOT A NUMBER OF OTHER
EXAMPLES BUT I JUST WANT TO BE
REAL QUICK.
WE HAD A DRIVER WHO LOST HIS
LIFE AFTER DELIVERING SAND TO A
CONSTRUCTION SITE.
WE HAD A RAW SEWAGE OVERFLOW ON
MAIN NEAR MADISON.
A LOT OF CONSTRUCTION IN THAT
AREA.
I'M NOT SAYING IT WAS CARS.
WE HAD CONSTRUCTION WORKERS WHO
HAD TO BE RESCUED FROM THE
NINTH FLOOR OF THE DEVELOPMENT
WHEN OUR LITTLE LIFT FAILED WE
HAD ONE MILLION DOLLAR CONDOS
BUILT WITHOUT SIDEWALKS.
WE HAD VISION ZERO WHERE
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY AND WE'RE
BUILDING WITHOUT SIDEWALKS.
SO I WANT TO WE GOT A GOOD
PROCESS BUT WE'VE GOT TO MAKE
IT BETTER SO THAT WE BRING
PEOPLE TOGETHER SORT OF LIKE
MEDIATORS RATHER THAN BRINGING
OUT THE WORST IN EVERYONE.
SO THANK YOU.
BYE.
THANK YOU.
WELL GOOD EVENING
COMMISSIONERS.
MY NAME'S TONY PANO.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN TWENTY EIGHT
MANOUVER ROAD IN NORTHWEST
BERN'S PARK.
THAT'S FOUR HOUSES EAST OF SWS
OR RIGHT IN THERE WITH THE
STUDENTS AND WE ENJOY IT AND
THAT'S THE FOREST WILL BE PART
THE PROPOSED PACARD CORRIDOR
TRANSITION DISTRICT AND I'M
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF ABOUT A
DOZEN OWNER OCCUPANTS PEOPLE ON
OUR STREET AND ALSO ON A BUNCH
THE RENTAL STUDENTS THERE ON S
FOREST IN THE NEIGHBORING
STREETS THE RENT THE OLD RENTAL
HOUSING BECAUSE AMIDST ALL THAT
WHAT A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T
KNOW, MAYBE A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM DON'T KNOW IT'S IT'S
NOT ALL STUDENT RENTAL HOUSING
BETWEEN THE SOUTH OF CAMPUS AND
DOWN INTO OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE LOTS OF OWNER
OCCUPANTS THERE.
SOME OF THEM WERE GETTING
OLDER.
SOME OF THEM WERE STILL
YOUNGER.
BUT IT'S A VERY MIXED
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S A VERY MIXED NEIGHBORHOOD
AND I THINK THIS IS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO ALL OF US WILL
AGREE IS THIS IS PART OF A
STORIED AND ARBOR ARCHITECTURE.
NOW WHETHER YOU ARE YOU
A
PERSON WHO TEACHES AT THE
SCHOOL AT THE COLLEGE
OF ARCHITECTURE NOT WE ALL
VALUE THAT.
IT IS PART OF WHY WE MOVED DOWN
HERE, WHY WE LIVE HERE IF YOU
DIDN'T GROW UP HERE.
SO WHAT I'M ASKING WAS A RATHER
POINTLESS THING AND THAT'S TO
RECONSIDER THIS WHOLE THAT THIS
WHOLE DISTRICT HAS BEEN PUT IN
TOO HAS BEEN PUT INTO THE THE
SOUTH OF THE CORRIDOR
TRANSITION DISTRICT ALL THAT
AREA SOUTH OF CAMPUS SOUTH
OF HILL, ALL THOSE OLD HOUSES.
THIS IS NO SOLID HOUSING STOCK.
IT'S THE ENTIRE SWATH SOUTH
OF CAMPUS AND IN GERMANTOWN AND
IN LOWER BURNS PARK THESE SIDE
STREETS ARE NOW MAPPED WITHIN
THE PACKARD CORRIDOR TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
THIS IS ALSO HOME.
THE TOWN IS THEY ARE INTACT
MIXED NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY'RE NOT ROWS OF RUNDOWN
RENTALS RIGHT FOR REZONING
THERE.
WE DON'T WE DON'T RIGHT IN
THERE TO HAVE MORE STUDENT HIGH
RISES THERE WOULD REALLY BE
DETRIMENTAL.
I'M NOT SAYING WE DON'T WANT
LOW RISE BUT NOT THE HIGH
RISES.
THIS IS THE STORIED BACKDROP
OF WHAT IS REALLY THE
QUINTESSENTIAL COLLEGE TOWNS IN
AMERICA AND IF YOU DESTROY THAT
IT'S GONE IT'S GONE FEVER AND
YOU WILL NEVER GET IT BACK.
I KNOW THAT FROM LIVING IN
GERMANY.
I KNOW THE MEMORIES OF THE
PEOPLE THERE FROM WHAT THEY HAD
BEFORE THE BOMBING AND WHEN
IT'S GONE IT'S GONE.
THERE'S TWO RENTALS COST LEFT
AND IN THOSE AREAS AND THEY'RE
DOING IN THE HIGH RISES.
SO A LOT OF STUDENTS THAT LIVE
RIGHT NEXT TO US, THEY'RE THERE
BECAUSE IT COST 500 TO 600 700
DOLLARS LESS THAN TO LIVE IN A
TOWER UP ON SOUTH YOU SO IT
REALLY WOULD BE TO TO
INCENTIVIZE THE DESTRUCTION
OF THESE HISTORICAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT'S NOT GOOD THESE NINETEEN
HUNDRED ERA OF HOMES WITH THEIR
TOWERS AND DORMER WINDOWS THESE
ARE THE BROWNSTONE SOME
MIDWESTERN AMERICA.
THESE ARE BROWNSTONES THIS HAS
BEEN AMERICA'S OUTSHOT AND YOUR
COLLEAGUES IN NEW YORK, BOSTON
AND GERMANY WOULD NEVER EVER
CONSIDER TEARING DOWN ANY
OF THEIR ALSTOTT ANY OF THEIR
BROWNSTONES.
IT WOULD NEVER HAPPEN.
THERE'D BE AN UPROAR.
SO JUST THINK THAT THAT
COMPARABLE OK, THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M LEE TALBOT.
I LIVE IN BERN'S PARK AREA AND
TWENTY ONE TWENTY WOODSIDE ROAD
I'VE LIVED IN ANN SINCE THE
70S.
I WAS A COLLEGE STUDENT HERE.
I TAUGHT MICHIGAN, I TAUGHT
HERE IN HIGH SCHOOL I JUST I
JUST HAVE TO MAKE A COMMENT
OF WHAT SOMEONE HAS SAID HERE
REGARDING PEOPLE OF COLOR.
I'M A PERSON OF COLOR AND I WAS
NOT DENIED HOUSING HERE IN ANN
ARBOR BUT WHEN I TAUGHT HERE IN
HIGH I DIDN'T MAKE ENOUGH MONEY
TO BUY THE EXPENSIVE HOUSE I
LIVE IN BIRDS PARK.
IT WAS A FUNCTION OF THE FACT
THAT I CHOSE TO BE A TEACHER
INSTEAD OF MBA OR DOCTOR
BECAUSE TEACHING IS A VERY
IMPORTANT PROFESSION FOR ME.
SO IT WAS NOT A FACTOR OF MY
COLOR OF MY SKIN.
THE REASON WHY I HAD THE
PRIVILEGE OF LIVING IN BERN'S
WAS BECAUSE MY HUSBAND WAS A
PROFESSOR AT THE B SCHOOL AND
MADE A LOT OF MONEY THAT THAT
THAT WAS THE REASON.
OK, I BELIEVE IN PRESERVING THE
HISTORIC NATURE I'M CONCERNED
ABOUT TWO THINGS NO ONE HAS
MENTIONED SO FAR BUT I WANTED
TO SAY I DO APPRECIATE ALL THE
WORK THAT HAS BEEN DONE AND I'M
SURE YOU'VE BEEN AS
CONSCIENTIOUS AS YOU POSSIBLY
CAN BUT OUR LOVE TO ME I FEEL
PAUSING FOR A LITTLE BIT TO GET
SOME MORE INPUT FROM SOME
PEOPLE NOT STOPPING IT, PAUSING
IT TO INCLUDE SOME THINGS SO
THAT MORE OF US CAN BE
SUPPORTIVE LIVING IN THIS
COMMUNITY WHERE WE ALL PAY OUR
TAXES AND I AM NOT AFRAID
OF STUDENTS.
I LOVE STUDENTS.
I ALL OVER AND OVER LIKE MY
HUSBAND.
I AVERAGE ABOUT SIX HUNDRED
MILES AROUND ANN ARBOR RUNNING
ALL MY PARENTS UNLESS I HAVE TO
BRING MY GRANDCHILDREN ALONG.
I KNOW THE STREETS BUT WHEN
IT'S MORE CONGESTED IT'S HARDER
FOR ME TO BIKE ON THOSE
STREETS.
PEOPLE OPEN THE PARK DOORS AND
I COULD BE HIT BY A DOOR WHEN
I'M TRYING TO KEEP OUT OF THE
WAY OF CARS THAT DON'T WANT TO
GO SLOW ENOUGH BEHIND ME AS A
BICYCLIST
IT'S BEEN TWO AND IS
JUST MOTORISTS WHO GET ANGRY
BECAUSE THEY WANT US OFF THE
STREETS.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF THAT
ROAD RAGE SO WHEN YOU MAKE IT
MORE DENSE YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
MORE PEOPLE WHO DON'T USE
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, WHICH I
THINK IT'S TERRIFIC AND I
BELIEVE IN IT 100 PERCENT AND
ADVOCATE IT.
>> BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE STILL
BRING THEIR CARS AND I GOT TO
GO SOMEWHERE AND THEY'RE GOING
TO BE IN THE STREET AND I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT LOSING THE
TREES, THE CANOPY OF THE TREES
WHEN YOU CUT THOSE TREES OR HOW
OUR CITY WILL BE HOTTER WILL
HAVE THE ISSUES WITH WATER
RUNOFF WITH RAIN YOU WILL
RELEASE INTO THE ATMOSPHERE THE
CARBON THAT HAS BEEN STORED IN
THESE TREES, THE HISTORY OF THE
TREES.
IT'S NOT JUST THE BEAUTY OF THE
THEY SERVE A FUNCTION WHEN YOU
TREES.
TEAR DOWN THESE HOUSES THAT ARE
THEY SERVE A FUNCTION WHEN YOU
NOT READY TO BE TORN DOWN, NOT
TEAR DOWN THESE HOUSES THAT ARE
ONLY DO YOU LOSE THE HISTORICAL
NOT READY TO BE TORN DOWN, NOT
SIGNIFICANCE BUT YOU'RE ALSO
ONLY DO YOU LOSE THE HISTORICAL
PUTTING A BUNCH OF TRASH AND
SIGNIFICANCE BUT YOU'RE ALSO
IT'S POLLUTED TRASH BECAUSE
PUTTING A BUNCH OF TRASH AND
SOME OF IT HAS LEAD PAINT AND
IT'S POLLUTED TRASH BECAUSE
OTHER THINGS THAT ARE IN
SOME OF IT HAS LEAD PAINT AND
BUILDING THINGS.
OTHER THINGS THAT ARE IN
>> YOU WILL PUT THAT INTO OUR
BUILDING THINGS.
SOIL AND I WANT TO THINK ABOUT
>> YOU WILL PUT THAT INTO OUR
THE RECYCLING.
SOIL AND I WANT TO THINK ABOUT
SO WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
THE RECYCLING.
SUSTAINABLE THANK YOU VERY MUCH
SO WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
FOR LISTENING.
SUSTAINABLE THANK YOU VERY MUCH
VERY KIND OF YOU.
FOR LISTENING.
THANK SPOTS.
VERY KIND OF YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANK SPOTS.
WHOA.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WHOA.
SORRY.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I'M ANDREW ROBBINS.
SORRY.
I AM A RELATIVELY NEW PRESIDENT
SO I'M ANDREW ROBBINS.
OF ANN ARBOR.
I AM A RELATIVELY NEW PRESIDENT
I'VE LIVED HERE FOR ABOUT FOUR
OF ANN ARBOR.
YEARS ON THE NORTH SIDE I AM
I'VE LIVED HERE FOR ABOUT FOUR
NOT REALLY WHAT I WOULD SAY.
YEARS ON THE NORTH SIDE I AM
I DON'T HAVE ROOTS HERE.
NOT REALLY WHAT I WOULD SAY.
I DO MEET THE SORT
I DON'T HAVE ROOTS HERE.
OF DEFINITION OF WHAT YOU SAY
I DO MEET THE SORT
AN OUTSIDER.
OF DEFINITION OF WHAT YOU SAY
RIGHT?
AN OUTSIDER.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO COME HERE
RIGHT?
AND TALK TO YOU ABOUT WHAT
SO I'M NOT GOING TO COME HERE
NEEDS TO BE DONE HERE.
AND TALK TO YOU ABOUT WHAT
INSTEAD I'M GOING TO GET A
NEEDS TO BE DONE HERE.
LITTLE BIT OF A CAUTIONARY
INSTEAD I'M GOING TO GET A
TALE.
LITTLE BIT OF A CAUTIONARY
I GREW UP IN A TOWN CALLED
TALE.
SIMSBURY, CONNECTICUT WHICH HAS
I GREW UP IN A TOWN CALLED
NOT HAD ANY HOUSING GROWTH
SIMSBURY, CONNECTICUT WHICH HAS
SINCE THE 80S.
NOT HAD ANY HOUSING GROWTH
IT MY MOM SHE GREW UP THERE,
SINCE THE 80S.
SPENT HER WHOLE LIFE THERE, GOT
IT MY MOM SHE GREW UP THERE,
A WITH MY DAD AND THAT WAS
SPENT HER WHOLE LIFE THERE, GOT
EVERYTHING I GREW.
A WITH MY DAD AND THAT WAS
THEY'RE PRETTY PRETTY GOOD LIFE
EVERYTHING I GREW.
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE PANDEMIC.
THEY'RE PRETTY PRETTY GOOD LIFE
MY DAD STOLE EVERYTHING FROM MY
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE PANDEMIC.
HOUSE, MY COLLEGE TUITION AND
MY DAD STOLE EVERYTHING FROM MY
EVERYTHING AND MY MOM WHO HAD
HOUSE, MY COLLEGE TUITION AND
DEEP ROOTS IN THIS COMMUNITY,
EVERYTHING AND MY MOM WHO HAD
POSSIBLY ONE OF THE DEEPEST
DEEP ROOTS IN THIS COMMUNITY,
ROOTS AT THAT POINT.
POSSIBLY ONE OF THE DEEPEST
NO LONGER LIVES THERE BECAUSE
ROOTS AT THAT POINT.
THERE'S NO HOUSES TO BUY.
NO LONGER LIVES THERE BECAUSE
THERE'S NOTHING AFFORDABLE.
THERE'S NO HOUSES TO BUY.
I LIVE OUT HERE WHICH I LOVE.
THERE'S NOTHING AFFORDABLE.
DON'T GET ME WRONG AND I
I LIVE OUT HERE WHICH I LOVE.
COULDN'T MOVE BACK IF I WANTED
DON'T GET ME WRONG AND I
TO BECAUSE I CAN'T AFFORD IT
COULDN'T MOVE BACK IF I WANTED
AND I SAY THIS NOT BECAUSE I
TO BECAUSE I CAN'T AFFORD IT
YOU KNOW, WANT TO.
AND I SAY THIS NOT BECAUSE I
HMM.
YOU KNOW, WANT TO.
YOU KNOW, I DIDN'T PREPARE THE
HMM.
SPEECH NOT BECAUSE I WANT TO
YOU KNOW, I DIDN'T PREPARE THE
USE MY SITUATION TO GUILT
SPEECH NOT BECAUSE I WANT TO
ANYONE BUT MORE SO TO TELL YOU
USE MY SITUATION TO GUILT
THAT IT DOES NOT MATTER WHO YOU
ANYONE BUT MORE SO TO TELL YOU
ARE.
THAT IT DOES NOT MATTER WHO YOU
>> IT CAN HAPPEN TO IT DOES NOT
ARE.
MATTER HOW MUCH YOU HAVE ROOTS
>> IT CAN HAPPEN TO IT DOES NOT
IN A COMMUNITY IF DISASTER
MATTER HOW MUCH YOU HAVE ROOTS
STRIKES MANMADE OR OTHERWISE
IN A COMMUNITY IF DISASTER
AND YOU FIND YOURSELF WITHOUT
STRIKES MANMADE OR OTHERWISE
THE ABILITY TO STAY PUT, THAT'S
AND YOU FIND YOURSELF WITHOUT
IT.
THE ABILITY TO STAY PUT, THAT'S
AND HOUSING IS NOT SOMETHING
IT.
THAT CAN JUST BE FIXED IN A
AND HOUSING IS NOT SOMETHING
WEEK OR SO IF WE DON'T START
THAT CAN JUST BE FIXED IN A
NOW THAT'S THAT'S ALL.
WEEK OR SO IF WE DON'T START
SO I.
NOW THAT'S THAT'S ALL.
I DO URGE PLEASE CONTINUE WITH
SO I.
THE PLAN.
I DO URGE PLEASE CONTINUE WITH
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THE PLAN.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS TRACY SWINBURNE.
I POTTER AVENUE.
I'M COMING TODAY IN SUPPORT
OF PAUSING THE PLAN AND
ENGAGING MORE CITIZENS IN THE
PLANNING PROCESS IN A
MEANINGFUL WAY.
THERE ARE NOW NEARLY AS MANY
RESIDENTS WHO SIGNED THE
PETITION TO PAUSE AND SAY THEY
WOULD LIKE TO BE ENGAGED AS
RESPONDED TO THE SURVEY OF THE
PLANNING PROCESS IF ONE OF THE
FUNDAMENTAL VALUES INCLUDED IN
THIS PROCESS IS TO BE EQUITY
INCLUSIVENESS, THE PROCESS
OUGHT TO BE INCLUSIVE TOO AND
THESE PEOPLE OUGHT NOT TO BE
JUST AS AN AFTERTHOUGHT AND
COMMENTS ON THE PLAN BUT AS A
PART OF THE FUNDAMENTAL
ASSUMPTIONS THAT ARE SO KEY IN
THIS PLAN.
THE PLAN IS POISED TO
INCENTIVIZE WHOLESALE CHANGES
TO NEIGHBORHOODS CLOSEST TO
TOWN.
DEVELOPERS WILL INTENSIVELY
DEVELOP AREAS CLOSEST TO TOWN
WITH THE MOST PROFITABLE UNITS
HIGH END STUDENT FOCUSED
APARTMENTS WHILE HARDLY
DEVELOPING OTHER AREAS ARE
CREATING THE KINDS OF STARTER
HOMES THAT KEY WORKERS ARE
LOOKING FOR IN TERMS
OF AFFORDABILITY.
I LIVE IN ALLMENDINGER PARK AND
WE'RE JUST BLOCKS AWAY FROM
HIGH END STUDENT FOCUS
APARTMENTS.
THE YARD 618 SOUTH MAIN HOOVER
AND GREEN.
THESE SEEM THE MOST PROFITABLE
DEVELOPMENT CHOICE NEAR US AND
IF ZONING ALLOWS I THINK THAT
WE WILL END UP ALMOST ENTIRELY
BEING TAKEN OVER BY THESE KINDS
OF NEIGHBORHOOD CHANGING OVER
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD ENTIRELY.
I THINK NEIGHBORS WILL FEEL
PRESSURE TO LEAVE WHILE THEIR
HOUSING VALUE CAN STILL BE
CASHED IN TO LIVE TO ANOTHER
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD AND I THINK
IT WOULD TURN OVER THINGS
ENTIRELY AND THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
WOULD MOVE FROM BEING ONE THAT
HAS MODEST FAMILIES AND CAN
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO
ONE THAT WOULD BE A STUDENT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND DECREASE THE
OVERALL SUPPLY OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FOR FAMILIES.
I THINK THAT ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS REALLY DO CARE ABOUT
QUALITY OF PLACE AND I THINK IF
YOU ENGAGE WITH THE MORE YOU'LL
HEAR MORE ABOUT THAT YOU'VE
HEARD QUITE A BIT ABOUT THAT
TONIGHT.
THERE SEEMS TO BE MISSING AS A
CORE VALUE IN THIS PLAN.
I'M ASKING THAT YOU PLEASE
PAUSE THE PLAN AND ALLOW MORE
RESIDENTS TO BE INCLUDED IN THE
PROCESS.
I THINK THAT YOU'LL FIND THAT A
LOT OF RESIDENTS ARE IN FAVOR
OF MORE HOUSING AND
THOUGHTFULLY PLAN DENSITY BUT A
LOWER SCALE THAN WHAT'S
CURRENTLY BEEN PROPOSED AND
WITH PRIORITY AND PROTECTION
FOR QUALITY OF PLACE I THINK
WITH MORE GENUINE ENGAGEMENT
YOU CAN BRING THIS PLAN TO A
PLACE OF GREATER CONSENSUS THAN
WE CURRENTLY HAVE NOW.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JAMES FARMER.
I LIVE A FIFTEEN TWENTY NINE
PINE VALLEY BOULEVARD PERMIT TO
DO FOR I
WAS BORN AND RAISED IN
ARBOR.
I MOVED AWAY FOR COLLEGE.
I WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO MOVE BACK
HERE.
WHY I WORK FULL TIME.
WE PRIDE OURSELVES ON BEING AN
INCLUSIVE PROGRESSIVE AND
WELCOMING CITY AND I COMMEND
THIS PLAN FOR NOT FALLING INTO
THE EXCLUSIONARY CONSERVATIVE
TRAP OF PRESERVING THE
CHARACTER OF AN AREA AND RATHER
INTRODUCING RESPONSIBLE GROWTH
THAT SERVES OUR VALUES AND
GROWS THE CULTURE OF OUR CITY.
I GREW UP IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
IN A SINGLE FAMILY HOME BUT ON
THE STREETS AROUND ME WORSTS
APARTMENT BUILDINGS, DUPLEXES
AND COMMUNITY BUSINESSES LIKE
JEFFERSON MARKET AND OUR FIRM
STOP I AND MANY OF MY PREVIOUS
NEIGHBORS REGARDED THESE PARTS
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AS THE
HIGHLIGHT OF LIVING IN THAT
AREA.
BEARING ELEMENTS OF LAND USE
AND DENSITY DO NOT DETRACT FROM
A NEIGHBORHOOD BUT RATHER ADD
TO IT AND MAKE IT NOT ONLY MORE
INCLUSIVE BUT BETTER ABLE TO
SERVE THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN IT
AS WELL.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT THIS PLAN
ACCOMMODATES THESE DEVELOPMENT
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AREAS
AND THE TRANSITION AND HIGH
DENSITY AREAS.
THESE DEVELOPMENTS WILL SERVE
TO RELIEVE THE PRESSURE ON THE
REST OF THE CITY TO ACCOMMODATE
THE GROWING NUMBER OF RENTERS
WHO LOVE TO MOVE HERE.
PLEASE CONTINUE TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH A DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
TO ADDRESS THE CITY'S HOUSING
CRISIS AND CREATE A VIBRANT AND
MORE SUSTAINABLE CITY.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO.
HELLO.
THANKS FOR THE MEETING TONIGHT
.
MY NAME'S VINCE CARUSO AT FIVE
FIVE SIX CONDO CIRCLE.
I WOULD LIKE TO JUST MAKE SOME
COMMENTS ABOUT THINGS BESIDES
HOUSING ISSUES BECAUSE WE DO
HAVE SOME REALLY MAJOR ISSUES
THAT WE NEED TO DEAL WITH AND
ONE OF THEM IS THAT GALMAN
DIOXANE SITUATION SO I'M A
BOARD MEMBER OF CARD A MEMBER
OF THE CARD FOR THE BOARD FOR
THE ALEX CREEK WATERSHED GROUP
AS WELL AND WE'RE FINDING OUT
THAT THE CITY DID SOME ANALYSIS
TO DETERMINE HOW MUCH WATER
POTENTIAL WE HAVE FOR DRINKING
WATER AND MY WIFE RITA CARUSO
IS A TOXICOLOGIST RETIRED FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SHE WITH ANOTHER GUY DAN BUCK
NOW DECIDED TO FIGURE OUT THAT
WE PROBABLY DON'T HAVE AS MUCH
WATER AS PEOPLE THINK THAT IF
IT GETS CONTAMINATED THAT MAKES
EVEN LESS AND THE OTHER
POTENTIAL ISSUE COULD BE THAT
CYO TOWNSHIP AND ARBER TOWNSHIP
ALREADY HAVE SLIGHT AMOUNTS
OF DIOXIN ONE FOR DIOXIN IN THE
WATER IF IT GETS TO SEVEN POINT
TWO WHICH IS THE CURRENT STATE
STANDARD VERSUS STATE STANDARD
FOR ONE FOR DIOXIN, A DRINK
OF WATER AND ARBOR WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO SUPPLY THESE
TOWNSHIPS WITH DRINKING WATER
FROM ANN ARBOR BECAUSE THE
TREATMENT PLANTS WERE BUILT
MAINLY BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
AND THEY HAD AN AGREEMENT WITH
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR THAT
FOLKS OUTSIDE THE CITY NEEDED
WATER IN ANN HARBOR WOULD
PROVIDE THAT.
SO WE'RE IN A SITUATION WHERE
THERE'S ONE FOUR DIOXANE MOVING
TOWARDS THE WEST OR TOWARDS THE
EAST AND THAT COULD BE A VERY
SERIOUS SITUATION.
WE'VE OUR GROUP HAS PUBLISHED
AN INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL ABOUT
THE CONTAMINATED GROUNDWATER
GETTING INTO A HOME AND
EVAPORATING WOULD EXPOSE THE
HOMEOWNERS AND PEER REVIEW
JOURNAL DECIDED THAT THAT WAS
ACTUALLY NOVEL EXPOSURE
SITUATION THAT WAS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR COMMUNITIES THAT
HAVE ONE FOUR DIOXANE IN THEIR
GROUNDWATER THAT COMES INTO THE
HOUSE.
SO I THINK WE NEED MAKE SURE
THAT WE DON'T LOOK BEYOND THAT.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE DEAL
WITH THESE CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE ISSUES BECAUSE
NOTHING WILL WORK WELL IF WE
DON'T HAVE GOOD WATER, WE DON'T
HAVE GOOD SEWAGE MANAGEMENT.
THERE WAS SOME TALK OF USING
GREAT LAKES WATER AUTHORITY.
THE MAYOR WAS VERY EXCITED
ABOUT IT AND WANTED TO GO THAT
ROUTE AND RITA AND TIM BICKNELL
ACTUALLY EXPLAINED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT THE DETROIT WATER
WAS NOT REALLY A GOOD OPTION
FOR US.
IT'S VERY EXPENSIVE FOR ENERGY
INTENSIVE AND THE QUALITY
OF ITS INTAKES IS NOT THE
GREATEST.
AND SO THANKFULLY THE CITY
COUNCIL DECIDED NOT TO USE
THAT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING WE NEED TO
LOOK AT.
TAKE CARE.
THANK YOU.
WELL, GOOD EVENING.
I'M ELLEN RAMSBURG AND FIFTY
THREE CAMBRIDGE TO BEGIN WITH I
REALLY DO WANT TO THANK THE
PLANNING STAFF AND THE
COMMISSIONERS FOR ENDURING
THESE LONG PUBLIC COMMENT
SESSIONS AND FOR ADDING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MORE
INFORMATION SESSIONS.
I RECOGNIZE THAT YOU HAVE A
HUGE RESPONSIBILITY AND I
BELIEVE YOU ARE SINCERE IN
DEVELOPING A WORTHY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THAT SAID, I CONTINUE TO BE
CONCERNED THAT IT IS ONLY
RECENTLY THAT YOU'VE BEGUN TO
REACH A LARGER AND MORE
REPRESENTATIVE CROSS-SECTION
OF RESIDENTS.
I'M CONCERNED THAT YOU CONTINUE
TO SAY THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS ONLY A FRAMEWORK THAT
DETAILS WILL FOLLOW IN THOSE
MORNING ORDINANCE ITSELF IF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DOESN'T
LACKS SUBSTANTIVE DATA AND
ACCURATE PROJECTIONS TO GUIDE
THE ZONING ORDINANCE, THEN
RESIDENTS CANNOT DEPEND ON THE
FINAL OUTCOME.
I'M CONCERNED BECAUSE OVER THE
LAST YEARS I HAVE OBSERVED
PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
COUNCIL REDUCE THE NUMBER
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR DEVELOPMENTS THAT
AFFECT IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS AND
THE COMMUNITY IN LARGE.
I'M CONCERNED THAT CHANGES ARE
MADE TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE WITH LITTLE OR NO PUBLIC
REDUCTION PUBLIC NOTICE SUCH AS
THE REDUCTION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE
AND SETBACKS REQUIRED FOR A
DUPLEX IN THE R TO A ZONE WHICH
NOW ALLOWS TWO DUPLEXES ON A
LOT INSTEAD OF ONE DUPLEX.
I'M CONCERNED THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS RESORTED TO
PASSING UDS IN ORDER TO
CIRCUMVENT THE EXISTING ZONING
BASED ON THE PREMISE THAT THE
LOCATIONS WARRANTED UP ZONING
RATHER THAN WHETHER OR NOT THE
DEVELOPMENT MET THE
REQUIREMENTS OF A PUDI.
>> I'M CONCERNED THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION IS NOT CONSIDERING
THE UNIQUE PRESSURES ON ANN
ARBOR FOR SPECULATIVE
DEVELOPMENT OR THE UNIQUE
QUALITIES OF EACH NEIGHBORHOOD
BY APPLYING A BLANKET LOW
RESIDENTIAL ZONING TO ALL R ONE
AND R DO ZONES.
THESE CONCERNS MAKE ME VERY
WARY OF THE PROCESS AND VERY
SCARY OF THE OUTCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS JULIE.
I LIVE AT NINE TWENTY KATHERINE
AND THE OLD FOURTH WARD THE
MOST DENSELY DEVELOPED WARD IN
THE CITY I'VE LIVED THERE FOR
OVER 50 YEARS AND I'VE BEEN
PART OF THIS PLAN FOR OVER
SEVEN YEARS SINCE BEFORE THE
PANDEMIC AND I'M FAMILIAR WITH
A LOT OF THE DIFFERENT MOVING
PARTS OF IT.
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR HARD
WORK.
I KNOW IT'S A BIG JOB AND I'M
REALLY DISAPPOINTED IN THE PLAN
THAT THERE IS NOW IT'S ACTUALLY
AN EXECUTION PROCESS AND YOU'RE
EXECUTING A PREDETERMINED PLAN
GOING BACK MANY YEARS BASED ON
COMMODIFYING THE REAL ESTATE
OF THE CITY OF YANAGAWA FOR THE
BENEFIT OF THE WEALTHIEST
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AND
THE EXTREMELY WEALTHY INTERESTS
OF PEOPLE OUTSIDE THE
COMMUNITY, INCLUDING NATIONAL
AND INTERNATIONAL CONCERNS AND
BUSINESSES WHO WANT TO PARK
THEIR MONEY IN US REAL ESTATE
USING A BIG TAX LOOPHOLE, A
MASSIVE UPWARD AND OUTWARD
TRANSFER OF WEALTH.
YOU DON'T WANT TO HEAR FROM
EXISTING RESIDENTS BECAUSE
YOU'VE NEVER TRULY ASKED AT THE
BEGINNING WHAT PEOPLE WANTED,
WHAT PROBLEMS THEY HAD AND WHAT
THEY WANTED SOLVED.
IF YOU DID YOU WOULD HAVE PUT
NOTICES INTO THE WATER BILLS
THAT EVERYBODY GOT SO THAT
EVERYONE WOULD HAVE KNOWN ABOUT
IT.
YOU ARE ASTROTURFING THIS
ENTIRE PROCESS WITH
PREDETERMINED MESSAGING THAT IS
BASED ON ASPIRATIONAL
EXPLOITATION AND NOT
NECESSARILY BASED ON
ESTABLISHED FACT.
WE KEEP HEARING FROM OUR
COUNCIL REP THAT THIS PLAN IS
BASED ON SETTLED STUDIES BUT
THOSE CLAIMS ARE NOT TRUE.
CHAIN MIGRATION DOES NOT
PERFORM AS CLAIMED AS DETAILED
IN A STUDY FROM THE UPJOHN
INSTITUTE RAPID TRANSIT LEADING
TO A REDUCTION IN COMMUTING IS
NOT SETTLED IF YOU'VE BEEN UP
COUNTY ANY PLACE FROM UNADILLA
TO KAISER BILL TO DEXTER TO
CHELSIE TO ANY OF THOSE PLACES
AND SEE THE ENORMOUS AMOUNTS
OF DEVELOPMENT OF HUGE HOUSES
AND LARGE ACREAGE KNOWING THAT
THOSE PEOPLE ARE COMMUTING INTO
ANN ARBOR AND NOT IN A MILLION
YEARS ARE THEY'RE GOING TO MOVE
OUT OF THAT HOUSE INTO AN
APARTMENT IN A HIGH RISE IN
DOWNTOWN DENSIFICATION LEADING
TO AFFORDABILITY IS ABSOLUTELY
NOT SETTLED.
I'VE SENT MANY OF YOU MY LETTER
THAT DETAILS THIRTY FOUR
DIFFERENT REASONS THAT'S TRUE
INCLUDING THE COST
OF CONTRACTORS, THE COST
OF SUPPLY IS SO MANY DIFFERENT
THINGS RIGHT NOW IT COST FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS A SQUARE FOOT
TO BUILD NEW CONSTRUCTION IN
THE AREA WE'RE IN NO WAY IS
THAT EVER AFFORDABLE.
THIS PLAN IS BASED ON FALSE
ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING
POPULATION GROWTH WITH NO
RELIABLE CITATIONS AND FALSE
ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT MANY THINGS
WITH NO CITATIONS.
>> IT'S NOT A PLAN UNLESS YOU
CONSIDER IT A MARKETING PLAN
FOR INVESTORS.
>> AND NOT ONLY THAT, IT'S A
CONCEPT OF A PLAN KIND OF LIKE
DONALD TRUMP'S CONCEPTS
OF PLANS.
>> IT HINTS AT THE POSSIBILITY
THERE MIGHT BE A PLAN.
BUT THIS IS NOT TO PLEASE DO
YOUR JOBS.
I KNOW YOU CAN DO BETTER.
I KNOW YOU CAN COME UP WITH THE
PLAN.
WE CAN ALL AGREE AND LET'S GET
EVERYBODY ON BOARD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO, I'M ALICE RALPH.
I LIVE IN A PRETTY INTERESTING
NARROW NEIGHBORHOOD ON EAST ST.
BOULEVARD AND MOST PEOPLE DON'T
KNOW WHAT THAT'S LIKE.
I THINK THAT THE OVERALL THE
DRASTIC
INCLUSION OF EVERY
SINGLE FAMILY AREA IS NOT VERY
HUMAN HUMANE.
AND SO I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE FACT THAT I WENT TO THREE
OPEN HOUSES AT THE LIBRARY
BRANCHES AND I HEARD THE SAME
THING OVER AND OVER AGAIN WHICH
WERE NOT REALLY ANSWERS BUT A
STATEMENT OF GOALS I GUESS.
BUT I'LL JUST SAY THAT ONE
PERSON AT A MEETING LAST NIGHT
ABOUT THIS PLAN HAD THE
GUMPTION TO SAY THIS IS WHAT'S
REALLY HAPPENING TO ME.
SHE SAID I'M ANXIOUS THIS RABID
CHANGE, THIS BLANKET APPROACH
IS MAKING ME FEARFUL AND I WAS
SITTING THERE THINKING THAT
KIND OF DESCRIBES WHAT'S
HAPPENED TO ME AS I GO TO ALL
THESE MEETINGS BECAUSE LIVING
ON A STADIUM BOULEVARD NOBODY
RECOGNIZES THAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THEY'RE DRIVING
THROUGH HAS A LOVELY LITTLE
COMMERCIAL HUB.
IT WASHTENAW STADIUM AND HAS
ONE AT PACARD AND IS STADIUM
AND HAS ONE IN SEVENTH AND IT'S
ITS SEVENTH OR PARLEYING EITHER
ONE WHEN YOU WHEN YOU GET INTO
THE OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS AND YOU
END UP ON W8 WEST STADIUM STOPS
BEING A RESIDENTIAL AND BECOMES
MORE OF WHAT'S GOING TO BE A DC
ONE DISTRICT.
I DON'T THINK THAT IT'S BLANKET
TREATMENTS ARE BENEFICIAL TO
MOST NEIGHBORHOODS AND I
PERSONALLY HAVE BEEN AT MY AND
MY HOUSE FOR FIFTY YEARS AND
I'VE SEEN THE CHANGES THAT HAVE
OCCURRED INCLUDING THE FACT
THAT THE FIVE LANES PLUS TWO
BIKE LANES ARE BELOW STANDARD
IN TERMS OF THEIR WIDTH AND
SAFETY CONCERNS.
SO THIS IS A REALLY COMPLICATED
THING IN MOST AREAS IN MY AREA
I FEEL PRETTY MUCH THE WAY THIS
WOMAN FELT BECAUSE ANY MORE
BURDEN ON OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH IS THE WHOLE LENGTH FROM
WASHTENAW AND STADIUM AND
STADIUM TO PAULENE I MEAN TO WE
WE HAVE TO GO PATCH THE THE THE
STADIUM THAT WE ARE NAMED FOR
UM ANY MORE PRESSURE WILL NOT
BE GOOD.
WE WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
THE STANDARDS SO MADE FIRST TO
MAKE SURE WE ARE NOT BUILDING
PROBLEMS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HELLO I'M ALEX HALL.
I'VE LIVED HERE FOR A WHILE AS
WELL.
I JUST WANT TO SPEAK FOR
ANOTHER GROUP PEOPLE WHO
WEREN'T INCLUDED IN THE
PLANNING PROCESS.
THE PEOPLE WHO DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT THE PLAN AND THEN LOOKED
AT IT AND SAID IT'S OK.
I I DIDN'T KNOW THIS WAS
HAPPENING.
I'M HERE BECAUSE I GOT ADDED TO
AN EMAIL LIST AND FOUND OUT
THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WAS MEETING TODAY.
BUT I'VE READ THE PLAN AND YOU
KNOW, I WASN'T CONSULTED.
I WAS IN I DIDN'T PARTICIPATE
BUT IT REPRESENTS MY INTERESTS
FAIRLY WELL.
SO I THINK THERE ARE A LOT
OF PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR WHO FEEL
THAT WAY AND BECAUSE THEY'RE
NOT ANGRY DIDN'T BOTHER TO COME
OUT HERE AND DEFEND IT.
>> JUST WANT TO PUT THAT OUT
THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSION.
THANKS FOR WELCOMING THESE
COMMENTS.
I'D LIKE TO MAKE JUST A FEW
QUICK SUGGESTIONS FRONT AND
THEN RESPOND TO A COUPLE
OF THINGS I'VE HEARD TONIGHT.
FIRST I JUST URGE YOU TO
CONSIDER ALLOWANCE OF HIGH
RISES IN TRANSITION WHEN IT'S
FAR AWAY FROM LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL.
NUMBER TWO, PLEASE ENSURE THAT
NOTHING IS INADVERTENTLY DOWN
ZONED.
THANKS FOR GETTING TO THE WEEDS
ABOUT THE MAP TONIGHT.
JUST WANT TO REITERATE MY HOPE
THAT ALL EXISTING MULTIFAMILY
AND ESPECIALLY PRIVATE GOLF
COURSES WILL BE INCLUDED IN
TRANSITION.
HOW THAT DISTRICT RELATES TO
LOW RISE CAN BE MANAGED IN THE
FUTURE WITH THE ZONING.
IF A PROPERTY GETS MET AS A LOW
RISE IT WILL NEARLY BE
IMPOSSIBLE FOR THAT TO BE
DENSER IN THE FUTURE AND MIGHT
EVEN BECOME NONCONFORMING.
LAST QUICK POINT UP FRONT I
ECHO THE SENTIMENTS OF SPEAKERS
WHO ASK THAT TRANSITION NOT BE
COMPARTMENTALIZED.
EVERYONE SHOULD BE A GOOD
NEIGHBOR AND WE NEED TO ALLOW
HOUSING WHERE PROPERTY OWNERS
ARE OPEN TO REDEVELOPMENT.
JUST RESPONDING TO A COUPLE
OF THINGS I HEARD.
ONE IS A VERY CUT AND DRIED
ISSUE.
THERE'S NO REAL ACADEMIC DEBATE
ABOUT HOUSING OBEYING THE LAWS
OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
YES OF COURSE NEW HOUSING COSTS
MORE THAN OLD HOUSING BUT
TODAY'S SO-CALLED LUXURY
HOUSING IS TOMORROW'S MIDDLE
CLASS OR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THERE'S ADS IN ANN ARBOR
NEWS THAT SHOW LUXURY
APARTMENTS BEING BUILT ON
PACARD AND TODAY THEY'RE SOME
OF THE MORE AFFORDABLE STUDENT
APARTMENTS IF WE DON'T ALLOW
NEW HOUSING TO GET BUILT WHEN
PEOPLE WHO HAVE MONEY WANT TO
MOVE HERE, THEY WILL JUST
DISPLACE PEOPLE WHO ARE
OF LESSER MEANS FROM A FIXED
AMOUNT OF HOUSING STOCK.
THIS IS AN ACADEMIC COMMUNITY
IF YOU WANT TO SEE STUDIES ON
THIS TOPIC PLEASE GOOGLE SUPPLY
SKEPTICISM REVISITED BY THE
FURMAN CENTER.
I'LL SPOIL IT AND SAY THAT MORE
MORE HOMES MEANS LOWER RENTS ON
THE TOPIC OF INFRASTRUCTURE
IT'S NOT OVERTAXED.
WATER CONSUMPTION IS 15 PERCENT
LOWER THAN ITS PEAK USAGE
AROUND TWELVE YEARS AGO DESPITE
A SLIGHT POPULATION INCREASE.
WE HAD PLENTY OF WATER AND
SEWER.
FINALLY, I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
A LITTLE BIT OF SADNESS ABOUT
THE FEAR THAT'S BEEN GENERATED
BY A MISLEADING FLIER THAT'S
BEING CIRCULATED.
SOME OF YOU MAY HAVE SEEN IT
PROMINENTLY FEATURED A
PHOTOGRAPH FROM ANOTHER CITY
OF A FIVE STORY APARTMENT
BUILDING BUILT RIGHT UP TO THE
LINE OF A SINGLE FAMILY HOME
NEXT DOOR WHICH TO MY KNOWLEDGE
WAS NOT EVEN IN THE REALM
OF CONSIDERATION ON THIS BODY
BUT BECAUSE THAT WAS SHARED
HANDED OUT AT ELEMENTARY
SCHOOLS ALONG WITH SOME
MISLEADING STATEMENTS, THE
DAMAGE WAS DONE AND IT'S JUST
IT SADDENS ME THAT THAT'S
POSSIBLE IN THIS COMMUNITY.
I WOULD JUST URGE PEOPLE TO
JUST LOOK AT WHAT'S BEING
CONSIDERED CLEARLY THE
RESTRICTIONS ON LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL HAVE ERASED THAT
FEAR.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
HELLO.
HI.
HOW ARE YOU?
WELL, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
OH IF YOU WANT TO PULL IT
TOWARDS SYRIA TOWARDS YEAH YEAH
I'M PRETTY SURE.
IS THAT GOOD.
THAT'S PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS DONOVAN I'M ONE
EIGHT NINE ZERO UPLINE DRIVE
AND THE LADY BEFORE ALICE I'VE
FORGOTTEN HER NAME MADE A
REFERENCE TO THE MARS STUDY AND
I WANT TO REFERENCE TO MEETINGS
THAT I'VE LISA WAS THAT BOTH
OF THEM YESTERDAY'S MEETING AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND OUT AT
TRAVA WOULD WAS A VERY
INTERESTING GATHERING AND THOSE
MENTIONED MIGRATION AND I THINK
THAT MR. WESTFALL JUST USED THE
SAME THEORY.
SO I SPEAKING WITH TWO OTHER
PEOPLE WHO WERE BOTH OF THOSE
AND I'LL GIVE YOU THEIR
COMMENTS WHEN WE MENTIONED THIS
LAST NIGHT, LISA SAID WHAT SHE
WAS GIVING.
SHE MENTIONED SCIENTIFIC
STUDIES, SEVERAL SCIENTIFIC
STUDIES THAT SUPPORTED HOW THIS
PROVIDED AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
BUT SHE DIDN'T SAY THEM WELL
THAT'S PROOF BY INTIMIDATION.
HOWEVER, SHE DID CITE ONE AND
THAT IS THIS STUDY AND THIS IS
THE EFFECT OF NEWMARKET HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION ON LOW INCOME
HOUSING MARKET.
AND IF THIS IS WHAT YOU
CONSIDER THE WAY A PATH TO
BUILD AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SOMETHING THAT TAKES THREE
DECADES.
SO HERE WAS A DISCUSSION THE
THIS IS THE FAMOUS MIGRATION
PAPER ONLY DONE IN VERY LARGE
CITIES LIKE CHICAGO WHERE THERE
ARE ACTUALLY LOW COST
NEIGHBORHOODS, SOME WITHIN
REACH.
PEOPLE WITH THE MEANS MOVE FROM
LESSER NEIGHBORHOODS INTO THE
NEW HOUSING ALLOWING PEOPLE
WITH EVEN LESSER MEANS TO MOVE
INTO THE OLD RUNDOWN PLACE
SOUNDS LIKE AN NEVER NOT UNLESS
WE ARE TRYING TO ATTACK THE
TRAP THE BETTER YPSILANTI
TOWNSHIP AND THEN THE SECOND
PERSON WHO WAS INVOLVED IN
THESE DISCUSSIONS SAID THIS IS
ABOUT HOW HOUSING BECOMES
AFFORDABLE OVER TIME AS NEW
HOUSING AGES AND THAT'S HOW AM
I EVER WILL EVENTUALLY ARRIVE
AT SIGNIFICANT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PERHAPS IN THREE
DECADES.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WILL
FACILITATE BLOCKBUSTING FOR
WILLING AND EAGER RICH
DEVELOPERS WHO WILL BE ABLE TO
BUY UP RELATIVELY CHEAP SINGLE
KAMELOT AND CONVERT THEM TO
MULTIPLE HOUSES BUILDINGS FROM
HOMEOWNERSHIP TO EVERYTHING
RENTAL THE GREAT SHIFT IN
WEALTH FROM INDIVIDUAL FAMILIES
TO LARGE PRIVATE EQUITY
INTERESTS BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE
CITY COUNCIL.
IT'S A KIND OF LATTER DAY URBAN
RENEWAL.
THE CITY PAVES THE WAY FOR
PRIVATE EQUITY TO TAKE OVER A
CITY AND THEN PRIVATE EQUITY
REWARDS THE VIRTUE SIGNALING
POLITICIANS WITH GENEROUS PAC
CONTRIBUTIONS NO MATTER WHAT
FEW LIMITATIONS MIGHT BE PUT ON
DEVELOPERS IN TERMS OF HEIGHT,
MACING SETBACKS ETC. IT'S
PRETTY MEANINGLESS AS WE HAVE
WITNESSED ALREADY.
ALL THE DEVELOPER HAS TO DO IS
PROPOSE A PUN OR A PLAN PROJECT
HOUSING A PROJECT SORRY.
ANYWAYS YOU UNDERSTAND THIS IS
NOT VERIFIABLE DATA.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MARK SCARBRO.
TWENTY SEVENTEEN FAIR STREET.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE EXPRESSED
CONCERN ABOUT NEW DEVELOPMENT
INCREASING IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
AREA AND I WONDER IF FOLKS
OF THAT SAME CONCERN ABOUT THE
SEA OF PARKING IN FRONT
OF MAPLE VILLAGE OR ARBOR LAND
IS FREE PARKING RIGHT IN FRONT
OF THE BOOKSTORE A PUBLIC GOOD
THAT WE SHOULD LEGALLY MANDATE
UNTIL VERY RECENTLY WE REQUIRED
PARKING LOTS TO ACCOMMODATE
EVERY SHOPPER THAT MIGHT VISIT
DURING THE HOLIDAY SEASON.
SO WHY WOULDN'T WE WANT TO USE
THAT SAME LOGIC TO ALLOW ENOUGH
HOMES IN THE CITY TO HOUSE
EVERY PERSON WHO WANTS TO LIVE
HERE BUT CAN'T AFFORD TO DO SO
?
ALLOWING HOMES TO BE STACKED
VERTICALLY INCREASES THE AMOUNT
OF LAND AREA AVAILABLE FOR
GREEN SPACE TREES AND
STORMWATER EXTENSION.
THAT'S WHY WE SHOULD ALLOW FOR
GREATER DENSITY IN THE
TRANSITION ZONES.
IT'S A GREEN CHOICE SOME PEOPLE
PREFER TO LIVE IN MORE
CARBON INTENSIVE DETACHED HOMES
AND THAT'S OK.
BUT IN AREAS OF THE CITY WHERE
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING ALREADY
EXISTS AND IS SUFFICIENTLY FAR
FROM DETACHED HOUSING, WE
SHOULD NOT LIMIT HEIGHT.
CURRENTLY THE PLAN PROPOSES
HEIGHT CAPS IN THE TRANSITION
ZONE INCLUDING NEXT TO ZONES.
THIS DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO ME.
WE CANNOT LEGISLATE THE
CREATION OF A DOWNTOWN WITH THE
OUTDATED WEDDING CAKE CONCEPT
UNCAP HEIGHTS IN THE TRANSITION
ZONE AWAY FROM THE LOW RISE
ZONE OR AIM FOR A UDC THAT'S
FEWER THAN THREE HUNDRED PAGES
BY COMBINING TRANSITION AND HUB
INTO A SINGLE CITY DISTRICT
WITH A BUILT IN PAPER AT THE
LAST MEETING THERE WAS SOME
DISCUSSION OF UNIQUE FLAVORS
OF TRANSITION ZONE TO
ACCOMMODATE DIFFERENT USES.
PLANNING MANAGER LEINERT STATED
THAT SOME USES ARE NOT
APPROPRIATE AND WALKABLE
CORRIDORS.
I HOPE THAT THIS COMMENT REFERS
TO USES THAT REQUIRE LARGE
SINGLE BUILDING VOLUMES WHICH
WOULD MAKE STREET FRONTAGES
AREN'T HUMAN SCALE IT'S
REASONABLE AND NOT THAT WILL
REQUIRE SEPARATION BETWEEN
WALKABLE RESIDENCES AND SOME
USES SOME PEOPLE WOULD LOVE TO
LIVE NEXT TO OR ABOVE A BUS
DEPOT OR USABLE CONTAINER
WASHING STATION OR A THRIFT
SHOP.
PLEASE DON'T INCLUDE LANGUAGE
THAT SUGGESTING SEPARATING USES
DON'T IMPLY SOME AREAS OF THE
CITY CAN'T BE WALKABLE AND
DON'T MAKE THE CITY DISTRICT
NEEDLESSLY RESTRICTIVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I OCCURS AND I LIVE ON
PROVINCETOWN KORTH NORTH AND
14.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR ON AND
OFF SINCE NINETEEN SEVENTY NINE
WHEN I CAME HERE AS A GRADUATE
STUDENT AND I SERVED FOR A
QUICK MINUTE ON THE ENERGY
COMMISSION BACK IN THE EARLY
2000S AND ONE OF THE ISSUES
WITH CITY PLANNING IN GENERAL
OR CITIES DECIDING WHAT TO DO
IN OUR COMMUNITIES IS THAT WE
ARE INFLUENCED BY STATE LAW AND
SOME OF THE THINGS WE CANNOT DO
BECAUSE OF STATE LAW.
BUT WHEN I WAS ON THE ENERGY
COMMISSION I UNDERSTOOD THAT A
LOT OF THE HOUSING THAT WAS
GOING UP ON YOU THE DEVELOPERS
WERE PROPOSING TO DO THINGS
WITH SOLAR WITH DIFFERENT KINDS
OF ENERGY
CONTAINMENT, WITH THE
STUDENT HOUSING AND THEY THINK
THAT WHEN THINGS WENT FROM
ENERGY TO PLANNING AND THEN THE
DEVELOPERS AND WHATEVER THOSE
KINDS OF THINGS DID NOT HAPPEN.
AND SO MY CONCERN WITH THIS
FRAMEWORK OF A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS NOT SO MUCH THE
DEVELOPMENT DENSIFICATION BUT
WHAT I HEARD LAST NIGHT AT THE
LIBRARY MEETING WAS PEOPLE
TALKING ABOUT THOUGHTFUL
DENSIFICATION AND I THINK
THAT'S A LOT OF WHAT I'M
HEARING HERE IN TERMS OF I
DON'T THINK WE WANT EVERY PLACE
THAT IS DENSE TO LOOK LIKE
BEEKMAN APARTMENTS ON BROADWAY
.
I THINK THAT WE WANT ATTRACTIVE
DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK THAT WE WANT
DEVELOPMENT THAT IS SUSTAINABLE
,THAT IS WELL BUILT.
I THINK AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SHOULD GIVE PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY NOT ONLY TO LIVE IN
NON FOSSIL FUEL PLACES BUT TO
HAVE ACCESS TO BEAUTIFUL
OUTSIDE AREAS AND SO I'M NOT
SURE I HAVEN'T READ THE PLAN
BUT I'M NOT SURE HOW THOSE
PRINCIPLES THOSE IDEALS ARE
INCORPORATED IN THE PLAN.
I DON'T KNOW THAT SOLAR ACCESS
ZONING IS INCORPORATED IN THE
PLAN AND I THINK THAT THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY.
>> SO THANKS FOR LISTENING.
THANK YOU.
>> WELL, I'M PLANNING TODAY I
AM JUST A GIRL STANDING IN
FRONT OF PLANNING COMMISSION
ASKING YOU TO LEGALIZE MORE
HOUSING.
I'VE HEARD A LOT COMMENTS TODAY
ABOUT STUDIES THAT HAVEN'T BEEN
CITED THAT HAVE BEEN STUDIED
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE SAYING THAT
STUDIES SAY CERTAIN TYPES
OF THINGS ARE THAT THEY DON'T
SEE THAT AT ALL AND THERE'S A
LOT OF DEBATE WITHIN STUDIES
WITHIN PLANNING A POLITICAL
SCIENCE ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
CERTAIN POLICIES WORK AND HOW
THAT SHIFTS.
HOWEVER, I WANT TO DRAW
ATTENTION TO A RECENT
PUBLICATION TITLED PUBLIC
COMMENT AND PUBLIC POLICY.
IT'S PUBLISHED BY ALEX ANDERSON
IN THE AMERICAN JOURNAL
OF POLITICAL SCIENCE VOL. SIXTY
NINE ISSUE NUMBER TWENTY TWO
EARLIER THIS YEAR THIS IS A
FRIEND OF FRIENDS.
HE ACTUALLY CAME TO THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN LAST
YEAR TO TALK ABOUT WORK HE WAS
DOING ON ANN ARBOR NETWORK AS A
PUBLISHER I WASN'T ABLE TO
ATTEND HIS TALK UNFORTUNATELY
BECAUSE I HAD TO TEACH MY OWN
CLASSES.
BUT THIS RECENT PUBLICATION
DOES GIVE US SOME FOOD FOR
THOUGHT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT SAM
FOUND IN STUDYING DECADES
OF DATA IN SAN FRANCISCO IS
THAT PUBLIC COMMENT IS OFTEN
NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF A SOCIETY
.
SO WHEN PEOPLE TALK ABOUT WHO
IS BEING LISTENED, WHO IS
SHOWING UP, HE SAYS MOST PUBLIC
COMMENTS ARE WHITE, THEY'RE
GOING TO BE WEALTHIER AND
THEY'RE OFTEN GOING TO BE
HOMEOWNERS AND IN FACT HE FINDS
THAT OFTEN COMMISSION AT LEAST
IN SAN FRANCISCO MAKES
DECISIONS THAT DEFER TO THOSE
THOSE DEMOGRAPHICS OF PEOPLE
WHO MAY NOT BE REPRESENTATIVE.
ONE OF THE PEOPLE AFFECTED BY
VARIOUS DEVELOPMENTS OR WHO
HAVE INTEREST IN THEM.
I THINK THAT PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
COULD BE BETTER BUT I'M GLAD
THAT IT'S ONGOING.
I WOULD ASK THAT WE MAKE SOME
OF THESE MEETINGS MORE
AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE WITH
CHILDREN FIVE THIRTY FIVE THREE
TO FIVE IN THE AFTERNOON.
IT'S NOT A GOOD TIME FOR ANYONE
WITH KIDS.
THAT'S REALLY HARD.
IF YOU ARE RETIRED YOU CAN COME
OUT AND DO STUFF LIKE THAT BUT
NOT PARENTS WHO ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT BEING ABLE TO HAVE THEIR
CHILDREN LIVE SOMEWHERE SAFE.
I'LL ALSO SAY THAT MANY OF MY
FRIENDS WHO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR
HAVE YOUNG CHILDREN.
THEY HAVE YOUNG CHILDREN, THEY
HAVE NO CARS OR ONE CAR AND
WHEN THEY WERE LOOKING AT
HOUSING THEY WERE THINKING
ABOUT AFFORDABILITY BUT ALSO
ABOUT SAFETY.
A MAN EARLIER MENTIONED THAT
HIS CHILD UNFORTUNATELY WAS
AFFECTED BY LEAD POISONING.
I HAVE MULTIPLE FRIENDS IN ANN
ARBOR WHOSE CHILDREN HAVE
SIMPLY BEEN AFFECTED BECAUSE
THEY WERE LIVING IN OLDER
RENTAL HOUSING AND SOME CASES
LANDLORDS WERE INCREDIBLY
RESPONSIVE AND OTHERS A FRIEND
HAD TO MOVE BECAUSE THE
LANDLORD REFUSED TO EFFECTIVELY
REMEDIATE THINGS.
SHE'S LIVING IN NEWER HOUSING.
SHE AND HER FAMILY ARE VERY
HAPPY.
I WANT IT TO BE POSSIBLE FOR
EVERYONE TO HAVE ACCESS TO
DIFFERENT TYPES OF HOUSING IN
MY NEIGHBORHOOD I LIVE ON
WOODLAND DRIVE THE IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD PIONEER.
THERE'S A FOUR PLEX THREE
HOUSES DOWN THERE ARE RANCH
STYLE HOUSES NEXT TO TWO STOREY
BUILDINGS.
IT'S LIKE YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND
ACTUALLY I DON'T EVEN KNOW THE
FOURPLEX WITH FOURPLEX UNTIL
SOMEONE TOLD ME THAT IT WAS AND
MY HEAD DIDN'T EXPLODE.
I DIE.
IN FACT THERE ARE USUALLY FEW
CARS PARKED IN FRONT OF THE
BOARD IT'S IN THERE ARE IN
FRONT OF MANY OF THE SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES ON THE STREET.
THERE'S LOTS OF POSSIBILITY AND
LOTS OF AIR BETWEEN THE WORLD
ENDING AND THINGS STAYING THE
SAME AND STAGNATING.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
HI JOHN GODFREY AND I REALLY
WANT TO SECOND WHAT SARAH SAID
BECAUSE I THINK SHE'S EXACTLY
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT DIVERSITY
OF CONTRIBUTION TO A PLANNING
INITIATIVE THAT A CITY
UNDERTAKES IS FUNDAMENTALLY
IMPORTANT AND IT SHOULD HAPPEN
AT THE EARLIEST STAGES AND
THAT'S WHY IT'S SO
DISAPPOINTING HOW INVERTED THIS
PLANNING PROCESS HAS BEEN THAT
YOU HAVE SEEN THE MOST PEOPLE
COMING BEFORE YOU FAR MORE
PEOPLE THAN WHO SHOWED UP
SESSIONS THAT WERE HELD LAST
YEAR TO TALK ABOUT THEIR
CONCERNS AND THEIR IDEAS AND
THEIR AMBITIONS.
AND WHAT'S STRIKING IS THE
ACTUAL THE LEVEL OF THE
CONSENSUS AND AGREEMENT THAT
EXISTS THAT WE AS A CITY NEED
TO HAVE PLACES THAT ARE FAR
MORE AFFORDABLE THAN THEY ARE.
WE NEED TO MAKE WAY FOR NEW
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO ASPIRE TO
ASPIRE TO LIVE HERE TO JOIN OUR
COMMUNITY AND IT NEEDS TO BE
REALLY INCLUSIVE AND WE NEED TO
HAVE MORE VOICES AT THE VERY
INCEPTION OF THE PLANNING AND
THAT'S WE'RE CONCERNED WITH
WE'VE HAD AN INVERTED PROCESS.
WE HAD A PROCESS THAT GOT
LAUNCHED WITH DIRECTION SET FOR
GOALS THAT WERE SET FORTH WITH
NO COMMUNITY INPUT OR
AWARENESS.
>> THAT IS WHY I THINK YOU'RE
HEARING PEOPLE SUGGEST THAT WE
SHOULD PAUSE THE PLAN, NOT STOP
IT, NOT TURN IT ON ITS HEAD,
KICK IT TO THE SIDE BUT TO
PAUSE THE PLAN AND DO SOMETHING
THAT'S REALLY RESPONSIVE AND
RESPECTFUL FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BUILT THEIR LIVES HERE AND
WHO WANT TO BUILD THEIR LIVES
HERE.
>> AND SO I I KNOW YOU WERE ON
A MISSION AND YOU KNOW YOU'RE
REALLY DRIVEN AND GRIPPED BY A
SET OF IDEAS AND I UNDERSTAND
HOW PERSUASIVE THEY CAN BE AND
HOW EMOTIONALLY POSSESSIVE
OF YOU THEY CAN BECOME.
BUT I THINK YOU'RE HEARING
PEOPLE SUGGEST WE CAN TAKE A
MOMENT TO PAUSE.
IT TOOK GRAND RAPIDS FOUR YEARS
TO DO THEIR PLAN.
IT'S TAKING US A YEAR AND A
HALF.
I THINK WE CAN TALK PAUSE FOR
JUST A LITTLE BIT, CATCH OUR
BREATH AND DO A WHOLE LOT
BETTER IN BRINGING THE
COMMUNITY TOGETHER TO BRING IN
THAT LANDLORDS SO THE THE
TENANTS
, THE HOMEOWNERS, THE
ASPIRING HOMEOWNERS AND HAVE A
REALLY POWERFUL COMPANY.
A COMMON CONVERSATION THAT'S
INFORMED BY ACTUAL DATA AND SO
WE CAN COME TOGETHER AND
RECOGNIZE WHAT OUR COMMON GOALS
ARE, WHAT OUR COMMON PURPOSE IS
IS A CITY AND PLAN FOR OUR
FUTURE.
SO FOR THAT I THINK IT WOULD BE
WISE JUST TO TAKE A STEP BACK A
LITTLE BIT AND PAUSED FOR A
MOMENT AND RECONVENE A LARGER
CONVERSATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WHOA.
I PROBABLY DON'T EVEN NEED TO
SPEAK NOW SO I SAY HI.
HI THERE.
NICE TO SEE YOU ALL AGAIN.
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR WORK BY
THE WAY LIVE ON TWO THOUSAND
FOUR CROSLAND IN THE CITY
OF NEIGHBORHOOD ACTUALLY RIGHT
UP FROM THE NEW PACKARD
DEVELOPMENT.
SO IT'S PRETTY CLEAR THERE'S A
LOT OF CONCERN.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ANXIOUS AND
FRUSTRATED.
ALMOST EVERYBODY HERE IS OPEN
TO MORE DENSITY, IS OPEN TO
MORE HOUSING.
IT'S OPEN TO MULTI HOUSING.
BUT IT'S THE METHOD AND HOW WE
DO THIS.
IT'S THE METHOD THAT MAINTAINS
THE CHARACTER OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT KEEPS OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS SAFE, THAT HAS
LESS CARS ON THE STREET.
WE REALLY DO NEED TO WORK
TOGETHER TO MAKE THIS HAPPEN.
WE ALL WANT I THINK A VARIETY
HOUSING OPTIONS FOR
INDIVIDUALS, FOR FAMILIES, FOR
COUPLES TO RENT AND TO OWN.
UNFORTUNATELY WITH THE CURRENT
PLAN THERE'S SO MUCH POWER THE
UP TO THE DEVELOPERS THAT WE
HAVE NO IDEA IF ANY OF THIS
WILL REALLY HAPPEN.
AND ANN ARBOR IS TOO SPECIAL
OF A CITY TO JUST GAMBLE IT
AWAY LIKE THAT.
THE REVOKABLE CHANGES CAN BE
MADE TO OUR NEIGHBORHOODS, TO
OUR HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND WE
JUST WANT TO BE VERY, VERY
CAREFUL THAT WE KNOW WHAT WE'RE
DOING AND THAT WE GO FORWARD.
THERE'S ALSO A LOT OF CONFLICT
AND DISAGREEMENT ABOUT THE DATA
AGAIN, DO WE REALLY WANT TO DO
WE REALLY WANT TO TAKE THE
CHANCE WITH MESSING WITH OUR
CITY WITHOUT JUST ALL BEING
SOLIDLY ON THE SAME PAGE OR
WE'LL NEVER GET ON THE SAME
PAGE BUT PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
SAME PAGE CLOSER THAN WE ARE
NOW PERHAPS?
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
REVIEW THE DATA TO LOOK AT
THINGS TOGETHER HUNDREDS NOW
THOUSANDS HAVE HAVE URGED YOU
TO PAUSE THE PLAN THE SAME
LEVELS THAT WE REACHED LAST
FALL AGAIN, I CAN'T ECHO JOHN
MOORE AND I REALLY SHOULDN'T
HAVE BOTHERED TO SPEAK AFTER
HIM BUT NOBODY REALLY WANTS TO
CANCEL THE PLAN.
WE KNOW WE HAVE TO GO FORWARD.
WE KNOW WE DO.
I'M I'M OPEN TO DENSITY.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
OPEN TO DENSITY BUT WE JUST
WANT TO DO IT CAREFULLY SO
PLEASE LET'S MAKE SURE OUR
COMMON OBJECTIVES ARE MET AND
LET'S JUST TAKE SOME TIME TO
PASS THE PLAN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME
?
>> OK, DO WE HAVE ANY MORE
CALLERS?
WE DO CHARLIE BREAD EXCUSE ME
BRAD YOU CAN ON MUTE AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING PERMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
CHAIRMAN LEE, THANK PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
EXCUSE ME ATLANTICS A LITTLE
CHALLENGING TO HEAR YOU.
>> COULD YOU SPEAK A LITTLE
LOUDER?
WHAT I MOVE MY MICROPHONE DOES
THAT HELP UP?
YES.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO I'LL REPEAT PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU PLANNING STAFF.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS A CHALLENGING PROCESS.
IT'S CONTENTIOUS BUT I'LL SAY
THIS IS WHAT GOOD PLANNING IS
ABOUT IS BRINGING PEOPLE OUT
AND GETTING THE ISSUES OUT IN
THE OPEN AND I FORGET WHO THE
CALL WAS BUT IT'S LIKE MAKING
SAUSAGE OR LAW.
YOU DON'T WANT ONE TO WATCH
EITHER BEING MADE IT'S NOT
PRETTY SOAP.
I HAVE A PARTICULAR CONCERN
THAT I WOULD ASK THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO INSTRUCT THE
STAFF AND CONSULTANTS ON AND
THAT IS TO BETTER STRUCTURE
THIS BY NEIGHBORHOOD IN ARBER
IS NOT A ONE SIZE FITS ALL KIND
OF PLACE.
MY GOOD FRIEND CLAIRE KOLEVAR
SPOKE EARLIER TODAY IN PUBLIC
COMMENT.
SHE LIVES IN THE OLD WEST SIDE.
I LIVE IN ORCHARD HILLS WHICH
IS THE KIND OF CLASSIC NINETEEN
SIXTY SEVEN COLONIAL AND RANCH
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE VERY
DIFFERENT.
I HAVE MANY COLLEAGUES AND
FRIENDS WHO LIVE IN THE BERN'S
PARK AREA AND THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE VERY
DIFFERENT FROM THE BRAND
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR HILLS AND THAT'S
DIFFERENT FROM MAPLE MILLER.
WE WE CAN'T KID OURSELVES THAT
ONE SET OF RESIDENTIAL ZONING
RULES ARE GOING TO FIT ALL
OF THESE.
SO LET'S COLLECT DATA AND YES I
KNOW THANK YOU ALL PLANNING
COMMISSION AND STAFF YOU'VE
STARTED TO COLLECT DATA BUT
IT'S STILL NOT BEING DONE ON A
NEIGHBORHOOD SPECIFIC BASIS AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS YOU'RE AT LEAST
CALLING MEETINGS OF YOUR WARDS
.
BUT WARDS HAVE MANY
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH DIFFERENT
ISSUES WHEN YOU LOOK AT SUCH
DOCUMENTS AS THE FEEDBACK FROM
THE OPEN HOUSES YOU SEE A VERY
BUNCH OF VERY MUCHI GENERIC
INPUT THAT'S NOT ENOUGH TO BASE
A PLAN ON.
SO PLEASE NEIGHBORHOOD SPECIFIC
AND LET ME BRIEFLY DIGRESS TO
THOSE WHO SAY THAT WHEN WE SAY
OF THE PLAN WE'RE ATTEMPTING TO
CUT OFF THE VOICES OF THE
PEOPLE ARE PARTICIPATED.
>> I'VE BEEN ON INVOLVED IN
THIS FOR EIGHTEEN MONTHS SO I
CAN'T CLAIM IGNORANCE BUT THIS
IS NOT ABOUT CALMING THE VOICES
OF THOSE WHO SPOKE OUT BUT
RATHER AND HERE'S WHY I'M NOT
IN POLITICS MYSELF.
I'M A PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.
>> THIRTY FIVE YEARS WE ARE
MAKING THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR COMMENT.
>> OK THANK YOU.
YEAH THANK YOU CARLA.
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH THREE FOUR FIVE YOU CAN ON
MUTE AND ADJUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
HI THIS IS KATIE.
CAN I LIVE ON CROSS STREET IN
WARD I'M AFRAID PEOPLE ARE
MISTAKEN IN THINKING THAT THIS
PLAN WOULD RESULT IN MORE
AFFORDABLE HOMES.
>> THE REALITY IS THAT IT
WOULDN'T IT WOULD BE THE
OPPOSITE.
>> I'M HEARING PEOPLE SAY THEY
ARE IN FAVOR OF THE PLAN
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR AFTER THEY
GRADUATE OR THEY WANT THEIR
KIDS TO BE ABLE TO LIVE HERE OR
THEY JUST WANT MORE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR I ASK THAT
EVERYONE DO THEIR OWN RESEARCH
AND JUST LOOK AROUND AT THE
RENTS AND HOME PRICES AND YOU
WILL SEE THE TRUTH THIS PLAN
WILL RESULT IN THE DEMOLITION
OF AFFORDABLE HOMES AND THEY
WILL BE REPLACED BY MARKET RATE
DEVELOPMENTS BECAUSE DEVELOPERS
WILL TARGET THE LEAST EXPENSIVE
AREAS IN TOWN.
AS OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE SAID,
MANY NEW DEVELOPMENTS HAVE BEEN
GOING UP BUT RENTS AND HOME
PRICES HAVE NOT BEEN GOING
DOWN.
>> INSTEAD THEY HAVE BEEN GOING
UP AND THE NEW DEVELOPMENTS ARE
ANYTHING BUT AFFORDABLE.
>> I AM PRO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BUT THIS PLAN WILL NOT RESULT
IN MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> PLEASE PLAN FOR PLAN AND
THINK ABOUT THE FACT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH SIX FOUR FOUR.
>> YOU HAVE UP TO THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> GO AHEAD.
MY NAME IS CATHY BORRUS.
I LIVE AT 176 CHARLTON IN THE
FIFTH WARD.
>> LET'S QUICKLY REVIEW OUR
RECENT CITY PLANNING HISTORY
SEVERAL YEARS AGO A LOOSENING
OF AIDO RESTRICTIONS WAS
PROPOSED TO HELP RELIEVE THE
HOUSING CRUNCH IN ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC PUSHBACK AGAINST THIS
PROPOSED CHANGE CENTERED ON THE
LACK OF NOTIFICATION OF WHAT
WAS EFFECTIVELY A SWEEPING
RESIDENTIAL REZONING WHICH
ALLOWED TWO HOMES TO BE BUILT
ON LOTS WHERE FORMERLY ONLY ONE
HOME WAS ALLOWED.
>> ULTIMATELY FEW KNEW THE USE
WERE BUILT PROBABLY DUE TO THE
HIGH COST OF CONSTRUCTION.
>> THEN A FEW YEARS LATER
TRANSIT CORRIDORS WERE PROPOSED
CALLED THESEA.
ONCE THIS WAS UP ZONING ALONG
SOME OF THE CITY'S MAIN BUS
ROUTES.
>> THIS PLAN INCLUDED HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS WITH VARIOUS HEIGHT
LIMITS.
THE PLAN IS IN PLACE NOW AND
THE BRIARWOOD REDEVELOPMENT IS
PART OF THIS PUBLIC RESISTANCE
TO THE PLAN AS A WHOLE CENTERED
AROUND THE FACT THAT IT DOES
NOT REQUIRE DEVELOPERS TO
CONTRIBUTE TO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, GREEN SPACE OR
INFRASTRUCTURE BEYOND THE USUAL
MINIMAL CITY REQUIREMENTS ONE
OR TWO CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
INTRODUCED AN AMENDMENT TO
REQUIRE MORE FROM DEVELOPERS
BUT THE AMENDMENT WAS VOTED
DOWN BY THE REST OF CITY
COUNCIL.
>> MEANWHILE, THE UNIVERSITY
CONTINUED TO INCREASE
ENROLLMENT AND SOME LANDLORDS
AND DEVELOPERS DISCOVERED THE
HIGH PROFITS OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
>> BOTH OF THESE TRENDS ADDED
TO THE SHORTAGE OF HOUSING IN
ANN ARBOR OUT OF LONG TERM
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
PRESENTLY THE DRAFT FOR A NEW
COMPANY PLAN IS BEFORE US.
>> ITS MOST SALIENT FEATURE IS
THAT IT ELIMINATES SINGLE AND
DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
CALLED I ONE AN HOUR TO AND
REPLACES THEM WITH A NEW LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
RESISTANCE FROM THE PUBLIC
CENTERS AROUND THE CITY'S
FAILURE TO INFORM AND INCLUDE
THE PUBLIC.
THE DRAFT ITSELF SUFFERS FROM
GENERAL FUZZINESS AND SOME
GLARING OMISSION.
FOR INSTANCE, IT SHOULD
DESCRIBE AS ACCURATELY AS
POSSIBLE THE EFFECTS THAT THE
DENSE LAND USE RECOMMENDED
WOULD HAVE ON OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE AND HOW MUCH IT
WOULD COST TO MAKE SURE THAT IS
MORE STRUCTURE COULD
EFFICIENTLY SERVE OUR RESIDENTS
.
ALSO FOR A CITY COMPRISED
MOSTLY OF CLIMATE CHANGE
BELIEVERS, THERE SHOULD BE SOME
INFORMATION REGARDING HOW THE
DENSITY LOCATION PROPOSED MIGHT
AFFECT THE LIKELIHOOD
OF FLOODING IN OUR TOWN.
>> MOST SIGNIFICANTLY, THE
DRAFT PROPOSES REPLACING THE
CURRENT NATURAL FEATURES PLAN
RATHER THAN INCORPORATING INTO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN B PAGE
FOUR OF THE DRAFT.
>> THIS PARTICULAR ILL
CONCEIVED EFFORT TO STREAMLINE
AND SIMPLIFY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SHOULD BE RESISTED AT ALL COSTS
BECAUSE THE NATURAL FEATURES
PLAN IS THE ONLY DOCUMENT THAT
WE HAVE THE UTMOST TO PROTECT
OUR TREES WETLANDS WHAT TIME?
>> I'M SORRY I'M WATER.
I'M SORRY WHAT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
COMMENT.
>> SORRY ASHLEY.
YOU HAVE UP TO THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
>> GO AHEAD.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY MY NAME IS
ACTUALLY AND I AM HOPEFULLY A
SOON TO BE HOME OWNER OF TWO
THREE FIVE S ROAD.
I CAME ACROSS THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION ON ZILLOW.
THIS NONPROFIT ALLOWS THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR WASHOE COUNTY
EMPLOYEES TO LIVE MUCH CLOSER
TO WHERE WE WORK CURRENTLY THE
HIGH COST OF LIVING IN ANN
ARBOR MAKES CHALLENGING FOR ANY
MIDDLE CLASS INDIVIDUALS OR
FAMILIES TO FIND HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES LIKE THE TWO CRT
WOULD OPEN THE DOOR FOR
TEACHERS, NURSES, FIRST
RESPONDERS ETC. TO FULLY
PARTICIPATE IN THE COMMUNITY
THEY HELP SUPPORT.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS A
CRITICAL RESOURCE THAT CAN
DRAMATICALLY HELP PEOPLE
OFFERING STABILITY, SECURITY
AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INDIVIDUALS AND THEIR FAMILY.
IT'S EXTREMELY HARD TO AFFORD
BUYING A NEW HOME AS A FIRST
TIME HOMEBUYER WITH MY SALARY
AS A GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE I
THINK THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
LAND TRUST ORGANIZATION CAN
BENEFIT THE CITY IN MANY WAYS
LIKE WORKFORCE STABILITY AND
REDUCED TURNOVER RATE REDUCED
COMMUTE TIMES IN WHICH BENEFITS
THE ENVIRONMENT, ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATIONAL AND
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
I'M EXCITED TO GET A SOLUTION
LOVE TO BE A PART OF THIS
AMAZING COMMUNITY HOWEVER RIGHT
NOW THAT WE ARE GETTING
TIMELINE'S THAT IT'S GOING TO
TAKE EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY FOUR
MONTHS FOR THESE APPROVALS TO
BEGIN BUILDING.
SO WE'RE CURRENTLY ASKING FOR
AN EXPEDITED PROCESS FOR THESE
APPROVALS.
NOT ONLY WILL THIS EXPEDITED
PROCESS HELP THE ONES WHO ARE
CURRENTLY READY TO START
BUILDING THEIR HOMES BUT THE
SOONER WE ARE ABLE TO GET
STARTED THE SOONER WE CAN GIVE
THE SAME OPPORTUNITY TO OTHERS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU
FOR THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH ONE NINE FOUR YOU
CAN ON MUTE AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
HELLO.
>> GO AHEAD.
HELLO THIS IS RITA RUDIMENTAL
CALLING FROM 621 VESTRIS.
I WANTED TO JUST TOUCH BASE ON
AN ISSUE OF SECTION FOUR POINT
ONE OF THE DRAFT PLAN IN FOR
WHICH ENCOURAGES WALKABLE
CONNECTED NEIGHBORHOODS WITH
ACCESS TO BASIC NEEDS AND
AMENITIES WHICH INCLUDES PARKS.
>> AND MY CONCERN IS THAT
THERE'S A REFERENCE TO
UNDERUTILIZED PARKS THAT COULD
BE POTENTIALLY TRANSFORMED INTO
HOUSING.
IT'S WHAT IT READS LIKE IN THIS
DOCUMENT.
MY CONCERN IS THAT IF YOU
ALREADY OWN THE PUBLIC LAND
THAT IS AVAILABLE FOR PARKS
THAT IS A PARK, WHY WOULD YOU
TRANSFORM IT INTO SOMETHING
ELSE IS THAT AREA NEEDS A PARK.
SO I'M I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
LOSING SOME OF THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT THAT WE ALREADY HAVE.
I THINK WE NEED TO HAVE
SPECIFIC GUIDELINES IF WE'RE
GOING TO MAKE THOSE KINDS
OF CHANGES AND I DON'T SEE ANY
KIND OF GUIDELINES IDENTIFIED
FOR MAKING A TRANSITION OF THE
TYPE THAT THAT'S IMPLIED IN
SECTION FOUR POINT ONE.
BUT I LIKE YOU TO CONSIDER THAT
AS YOU MOVE FORWARD AND THIS
WOULD BE ONE OF THE THINGS TO
CONSIDER IN A PAUSE WITH
CAREFULLY LOOK AT THE PARKLAND
AND WHAT DOES THAT MEAN WHEN
SOMEONE SAYS A PARK IS EITHER
UNDERUTILIZED OR POOR QUALITY,
BOTH OF WHICH CAN BE CHANGED
ESPECIALLY IF THERE'S MORE
DENSE HOUSING NEARBY.
DON'T DISCOUNT WHAT WE ALREADY
HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
LOUIS VASQUEZ.
>> YOU HAVE UP TO THREE MINUTES
TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
OH GREAT.
THANK YOU.
LUIS VASQUEZ NINE ZERO NINE
BARTON DRIVE IN UPPER LOWER
TOWN IN REGARDS TO SECTION FIVE
I BELIEVE IT IS WHAT YOU ARE
COVERING TONIGHT.
I I'M IN FAVOR OF ALLOWING HIGH
RISE BUILDINGS IN THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT WHEN
THEY'RE NOT IMMEDIATELY NEXT TO
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS
ALSO IN FAVOR OF ALLOWING THE
SAME TYPES OF COMMERCIAL
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT AND I DON'T
THINK THERE'S A NEED FOR
CREATING SUBDISTRICTS.
THIS CAN CREATE MARKET
DISTORTIONS AND COMPLEXITIES
AND DELAYS IN IMPLEMENTING THE
ZONING LATER AND ALSO TO NOT
PLEASE DON'T DOWNTON'S OWN
MULTI-FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS BY
ALLOWING THEM TO BE LUMPED INTO
LOW RISE ANY NEW RESTRICTIONS
IN SINGLE FAMILY AREAS MAKE
THIS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
CONSIDERING THAT YOU KNOW,
PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
COUNCIL HAVE TRIED TO MAKE
THREE STORIES THE LIMIT I LIVE
IN A THREE STORY HOUSE IN THE
NORTH SIDE AND DOSCH IF I
WANTED TO SPLIT MY LOT TODAY
AND BUILD A FOUR STORY UNIT ON
THE SPLIT OFF PLOT, I COULDN'T
DO THAT BECAUSE OF THE CURRENT
ZONING.
I'M RIGHT NEXT TO A BUS STOP AT
A BUS STOP.
THIS WOULD MAKE SENSE FOR MY
WIFE AND I TO DOWNSIZE INTO A
NEW STRUCTURE AND PROVIDE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR OTHERS TO
LIVE IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT I CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE
OF THE ZONING.
AND FINALLY I JUST WANTED TO
POINT OUT SOME OF THE LOADED
EMOTIONAL TERMINOLOGY I'VE
HEARD USED TONIGHT SUCH AS
BLOCKBUSTING, CUTTING DOWN THE
TREE CANOPY AND DESTROYING OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE ELEMENT THAT'S REALLY A
BUNCH OF BALONEY.
SO I I DISREGARD IT ENTIRELY.
OK, THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
TONIGHT.
I KNOW YOU'VE GOT A LOT
OF DISCUSSION BEFORE SO THANK
YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR ALL OF YOUR
EFFORT.
>> THANK YOU.
NO HANDS AT THIS TIME JERRY,
GIVE IT JUST A SECOND.
OK, WITH THAT WE WILL CLOSE OH
LET'S GET GIVE IT A SECOND.
>> YEAH THAT'S WHY WE GOT THE
SECOND CAR WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER WAS SEVEN ONE ZERO.
YOU CAN ON MUTE AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
>> GO AHEAD.
HI THERE.
MY NAME IS ROB RUSSELL AND I
HAD THAT HAPPEN AT THE END HERE
AND THAT 2004 ACROSS THE STREET
UP UNTIL TODAY I'VE BEEN PART
OF THE PART OF THE PLAN GROUP
MAINLY FOR MY PART THE CURRENT
SWATH OF INVESTMENT DEVELOPERS
MAKING GINORMOUS MULTIUNIT
BUILDINGS WITH NUMEROUS BAD
THAT CAN COMMAND EXORBITANT
RENTS.
THEY SCARED ME NOT JUST BECAUSE
OF THE INHERITANCE IMBALANCES
THAT OCCUR BECAUSE OF WHO CAN
AFFORD AND WHO CAN'T BUT THAT
THEY EAT UP PURCHASABLE PLOTS
IN THE CITY IN FAVOR OF RENTALS
THAT THAT FUNNY THE FUNNEL THE
LOCAL MONEY INTO BANK ACCOUNTS
LOCATED WHO KNOWS WHERE BUT THE
RECENT NATIONAL POLITICAL
SITUATION AND THE FACT THAT MY
401K HAS TANKED
AS A RESULT I
DECIDED TO DO SOME SOME
RESEARCH IN THE MUTUAL
FUNDS
THAT ARE DOING INVESTING IN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND MANY
OF THEM MOST OF THEM ACTUALLY
HAVE DOUBLE DIGIT RETURNS EVEN
IN THIS ECONOMY AND I HAVE
FOUND SEVERAL WHOSE PROSPECTS
ARE LOOKING AT PLACES LIKE ANN
ARBOR TO PAD THEIR POCKETS SO
I'VE CHANGED MY MIND.
PLEASE CONTINUE WITH THE PLAN.
GET THOSE UGLY SHUBERT'S
LOOKING RENTALS, BUILD MY 401K
YOU NEED THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU ANGELA.
>> YOU CAN OWN ME AND ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES THAT EVENING.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO THE
ENTIRE REPLANNING COMMISSION AS
A WARD THREE RESIDENT I LIVE AT
TEN FIFTY THREE LINCOLN AVENUE
AND I URGE YOU TO PAUSE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DUE TO MAJOR
GAPS THAT UNDERMINE ITS
EFFECTIVENESS.
THE PLAN DOES NOT MEET
MICHIGAN'S PLANNING ENABLING
ACT REQUIREMENTS FOR LONG TERM
POPULATION ECONOMIC AND
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTIONS NOR
DOES IT FULLY INTEGRATE
EXISTING MASTER PLANS LIKE THE
NATURAL FEATURES PLAN OR
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
STRATEGIES.
IT LACKS A DEDICATED AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PLAN.
IT OMITS A THOROUGH
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
AND IT PROVIDES NO FISCAL
ANALYSIS OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACTS
.
>> THIS RUSHED PROCESS HAS
RESULTED IN LIMITED PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT AND INSUFFICIENT
DATA ANALYSIS.
>> UNLIKE PEER CITIES WITH
CLEAR ACTIONABLE FRAMEWORKS IN
ARBOR'S DRAFT RELIES ON VAGUE
GOALS AND INCLUDES PROBLEMATIC
PROPOSALS LIKE THE FLEX
BUSINESS DISTRICT WHICH
RESTRICTS HOUSING WITHOUT
EVIDENCE.
WITHOUT ADDRESSING THESE
ISSUES, THE PLAN RISKS LEGAL
CHALLENGES AND FAILS TO PROVIDE
A TRULY COMPREHENSIVE EQUITABLE
VISION FOR THE CITY.
PLEASE PAUSE APPROVAL UNTIL
THESE DEFICIENCIES ARE RESOLVED
WITH INCREASED PUBLIC AWARENESS
,INCREASED PUBLIC COMMENT AND
WITH ROBUST DATA DRIVEN
REVISIONS.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
COLOR WITH A PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH FIVE THREE FOUR CAN
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STALBERG EYE-LEVEL
ONE TWO ZERO TWO TRAILER STREET
IN THE HEART OF LORTEL HARBOR
I'VE BEEN PROVIDING IN ANN
ARBOR FOR OVER THIRTY YEARS NOW
AFFORDABLE AND WORKFORCE
HOUSING IN GENERAL DENSITY.
>> I STARTED WITH A TRIPLEX
THAT I BOUGHT WITH TWO FRIENDS
A FIXER UPPER.
WE MOVED ON FROM THERE AND KEPT
THAT AS A RENTAL.
>> WE BOUGHT SIDE BY SIDE
DUPLEXES GETTING INVESTORS.
>> WE BOUGHT ADDITIONAL
DUPLEXES.
WE HELP PEOPLE OWN
OWNER-OCCUPIED DUPLEXES.
>> I DID THAT WORK AS A BROKER.
>> IT WORKS DENTAL DENSITY IS A
REAL THING THAT COULD WORK THE
HOMES THAT WE RENT OUT BLEND IN
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN TERMS
OF SCALE.
THIS PLAN WILL NOT BE PROVIDING
THAT THIS PLAN WILL RISK PLAN
PASSES A TIPPING POINT WHERE
GENTLE DENSITY WILL WORK AND
WHERE THAT LAND BECOMES MORE
VALUABLE TO BE TORN DOWN, TO
HAVE DOLLAR CONDOS BUILT THERE
OR APARTMENT BUILDINGS THAT ARE
EXPENSIVE.
THIS PLAN WILL HURT THE MORE
MODERATE SEGMENTS OF THE
MARKET.
>> IT WILL GENERATE A LOT
OF EXPENSIVE HOUSING.
>> IT WILL NOT GENERATE
MODERATELY PRICED HOUSING AND
IT WILL REDUCE THE SUPPLY
OF MODERATELY PRICED HOUSING
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT WILL BE
TARGETED FOR DOWN AND
REDEVELOPMENT.
>> SO THE SUPPLY IN THE
MODERATE SEGMENTS OF THE MARKET
WILL DECREASE AND THE PRICE
WILL INCREASE.
>> SO I FEEL REALLY BAD FOR THE
PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY THE YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO ARE WANTING TO GET
IN THE MARKET AND I'M A BUYER'S
BROKER FOR FIRST TIME HOME
BUYERS.
>> I KNOW FIRSTHAND FROM MY
CLIENTS THAT IT'S TOUGH BUT
THOSE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN DUPED
INTO THINKING THAT THIS PLAN
WILL PROVIDE FOR THEM WHAT THEY
NEED.
IT WON'T IT'S GOING TO PROVIDE
EXPENSIVE HOUSING.
IT'S BEEN ADMITTED BY PEOPLE ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS PLANNING STAFF
THAT WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS
INCREASE EXPENSIVE HOUSING AND
WAIT FOR DECADES FOR THE RATE
OF GROWTH OF HOUSING TO SLOW
DOWN NOT TO BE CHEAPER BUT THE
RATE OF GROWTH AND PRICES TO
SLOW DOWN.
BUT IT'S GOING TO SLOW DOWN IN
THOSE SEGMENTS OF THE MARKET.
WELL, WE'RE ADDING SUPPLY.
IT WON'T SLOW DOWN IN THE
MODERATE SEGMENTS OF THE MARKET
WHERE WE'RE NOT IN SUPPLY.
SO SUPPLY IN THIRTY MORE
SECONDS.
>> SUPPLY AND DEMAND DOES WORK
IF YOU LOOK AT REAL ESTATE AS A
SECONDARY MARKET, WHICH IS HOW
YOU MUST LOOK AT IT BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
THAT'S WHAT THE MARKET IS.
THAT'S WHAT DEVELOPERS KNOW IS
WE'RE GOING TO DRIVE PEOPLE
INTO THE TOWNSHIPS FOR THE
ATTAINABLE PRICED HOUSING.
>> SO WE'VE LOST AFFORDABILITY
AND WE'VE LOST SUSTAINABILITY
AND NO EQUITY IN THIS PLANT AT
ALL.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, KATIE.
YOU HAVE UP TO THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
>> GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
>> YES, HI.
MY NAME IS KATIE.
I AM A RESIDENT OF MANCHESTER,
RHODE AND I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE
MY THOUGHTS AS A RECENT
HOMEBUYER.
WE JUST MOVED TO ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS AGO AND I AM IN SUPPORT
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION JUST
BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN ECHOED
MANY TIMES HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
TO BUY A HOME IN THIS CITY FOR
SCALE.
WE MOVED FROM GRAND RAPIDS.
WE'VE LIVED IN GRAND RAPIDS FOR
THE LAST TEN YEARS, DECIDED WE
WANTED TO MOVE TO ANN ARBOR TO
BE CLOSER TO OUR FAMILY.
WE WENT TO SCHOOL YOU ABOUT ME
AND MY HUSBAND AND REALLY JUST
STRUGGLED TO FIND A PLACE WE
PAID THREE FIFTY FOR OUR HOUSE
IN GRAND RAPIDS AND SIMILAR
HOMES NOW ARE GOING FOR SEVEN
FIFTY AND POSTPONE HOW QUICKLY
WE WANTED TO MOVE BECAUSE WE
JUST SIMPLY COULDN'T AFFORD IT
AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WE
LIVED IN IN GRAND RAPIDS WAS
JUST LIKE WHAT THE DEVELOPMENT
IS TALKING ABOUT NOW A MIXED
USE DEVELOPMENT WITH SEPARATE
DOWNTOWNS, LITTLE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT HAVE THESE GOOFY LITTLE
SHOPS THAT ANN ARBOR RIGHT.
SAY THEY WANT TO STILL HAVE ALL
OF THE PLACES THAT COULDN'T
AFFORD DOWNTOWN GRAND RAPIDS
PUT UP IN THESE LITTLE SIDE
DOWNTOWNS WHERE YOU COULD WALK
TO GET A HAIRCUT AT A LOCAL
SALON OR GO HAVE BREAKFAST OR
GO TO THE CANDY STORE, GO TO A
GIFT SHOP.
ALL OF THOSE REALLY GREAT
THINGS THAT CATER TO YOUR
COMMUNITY WITH TEN SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES MIXED WITH ONE TO
TO LEVEL APARTMENTS AND
DUPLEXES.
IT WASN'T NOISY.
THERE WERE TREES.
IT WAS A GREAT PLACE TO BE AND
I WANTED THAT IN ANN ARBOR I
LOOKED AT BIRDS PARK.
I LOOKED AT THE OLD WEST SIDE
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE MY SON RIDE
HIS BIKE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD,
MEET UP WITH FRIENDS, GO SEE A
MOVIE AT A LOCAL THEATER AND WE
COULDN'T HAVE THAT BECAUSE IT
WAS JUST TOO EXPENSIVE AND SAD
BECAUSE BOTH ME AND MY HUSBAND
WE WORK LOSE OUR FINANCES AND
WE DID IT RIGHT.
LIKE I SAID, I'M A PHARMACIST.
MY HUSBAND'S A DATA SCIENTIST
BUT MY FRIENDS MY FRIENDS WHO
WANT TO HAVE KIDS WHO WANT TO
HAVE THE KIDS GO TO THE SCHOOLS
HERE TO HAVE A LIFE HERE WHOSE
KIDS WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO GROW
UP HERE AND HAVE THEIR FRIENDS
HERE.
THEY JUST MOVED TO IPSI CANTON
AND THEY JUST CAN'T EVEN
CONSIDER A PLACE LIKE ANN ARBOR
.
>> IT'S SAD, YOU KNOW, HEARING
SOME OF THE OPPOSITION'S LIKE
THE ONE PERSON WHO SAID WE'LL
JUST LIVE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
WELL, I DON'T WANT TO LIVE
OUTSIDE THE CITY.
I CAME TO ANN ARBOR BECAUSE I
LOVE ANN ARBOR AND I LOVE THE
WALKABILITY AND JUST BEING ABLE
TO HAVE AN OPTION OR MORE
OPTIONS FOR LOCAL PLACES THAT
CATER TO US AS FAMILIES.
SO I DEFINITELY SUPPORT THIS
PROPOSITION.
I LOVE THE IDEA OF HAVING A
SEPARATE DOWNTOWN AND STATED
EISENHOWER WHERE I LIVE IT'S A
DEAD ZONE.
THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
THERE'S NO TREES.
IT'S JUST PARKING LOTS AND
BUILDINGS.
SO I HIGHLY CONSIDER FOR MY
GENERATION FOR THE GENERATION
AFTER ME TO HELP CONTRIBUTE TO
THE ECONOMY AND HELP IT GROW.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
STAYING TO LISTEN TO ME.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER HANDS RAISED.
>> OK WITH THAT WE WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THANK YOU AND THANKS TO
EVERYBODY THAT CAME AND SPOKE
WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I THINK DO
I HAVE WHO WANTS TO POWER
THROUGH OR WHO WANTS TAKE A
QUICK BREAK.
>> LET ME JUST GET A BREAK, OK?
>> WE WILL TAKE A FIVE MINUTE
BREAK.
WE WILL BE BACK AT EIGHT 11
P.M. THANK YOU
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO RESUME THE
MEETING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
ALL RIGHT.
FOR NOW THAT WE'RE DONE WITH
ITEM NUMBER FIVE WITH PUBLIC
COMMENT, WE'RE GOING TO GO INTO
AGENDA NUMBER SIX WHICH IS
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THERE ARE NONE AND WE ARE GOING
INTO THE AGENDA NUMBER SEVEN
WHICH PRIOR TO THIS PARTICULAR
AGENDA ITEM WE ARE ACTUALLY
GOING TO OFFER A TIME FOR
COMMISSIONERS TO RESPOND TO
SOME OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
WE HEARD AND PLEASE IF WE COULD
COME TO ORDER IN THE ROOM.
>> THANK SO I WILL GIVE SOME
SPACE AND SOME FLOOR TO
COMMISSIONERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
RESPOND TO SOME OF THE SPECIFIC
PUBLIC COMMENT ITEMS THAT THEY
MAY HAVE HEARD.
>> SO DOES ANYBODY WITHIN WOULD
LIKE TO SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT
ANY COMMENTS COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH THANK YOU CHARLIE.
I LIKE THAT ONE OF THE
COMMENTERS REMINDED US THAT
PEOPLE CAME HERE TOGETHER TO
PASS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLAGE IN TWENTY TWENTY AND
THAT DID BRING US TOGETHER AND
THE SUSTAINABILITY MILLAGE AS
WELL.
SO I THINK THAT WE KNOW THERE'S
COHESION IN THIS COMMUNITY AND
THE PLAN MIGHT NOT BE BRINGING
IT OUT BUT THAT MIGHT BE
BECAUSE WE WE AREN'T ALL COMING
TO IT WITH THE SAME FACTS AND
SOME OF US HAVE SOME
MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT WHAT'S IN
IT.
>> SO ONE COMMENTER ASKED FOR
THE GOALS OF THE PLAN AND HOW
THE PLAN WILL ACHIEVE THOSE
GOALS AND I WANT TO START WITH
A DATA POINT BETWEEN TWENTY
THIRTEEN AND TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND ARBOR SAW MEANINGFUL
INCREASE IN POPULATION FOR ONLY
ONE HOUSEHOLD CATEGORY AND
THAT'S HOUSEHOLDS EARNING ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND OVER WE ADDED 6000
OF THOSE HOUSES IN THAT DECADE
AND WE LOST 4000 IN HOUSEHOLDS
AT FIFTY PERCENT AM I AND BELOW
AND I CAN ACTUALLY I CAN
ACTUALLY BARELY READ THAT
BECAUSE IT IS UNBELIEVABLY
DISTRESSING FOR ME AND I THINK
A GOAL OF THE PLAN IS TO NOT GO
IN THAT DIRECTION BECAUSE IF
THERE IS ONE WAY I DON'T WANT
TO LIVE IN NEW YORK IT IS THAT
WAY I DON'T WANT TO LIVE IN A
CITY THAT HAS PEOPLE ACTUALLY
MANHATTAN ACTUALLY HAS PEOPLE
AT AT THE EXTREMES AT THE
HIGHEST AND THE LOWEST AND NONE
IN BETWEEN.
SO THIS IS EVEN WORSE.
THIS IS GOING IN AN EVEN WORSE
DIRECTION THAN THAT.
>> SO ONE THING IS CERTAIN FROM
THE ACADEMIC LITERATURE TO DO
NOTHING OR TO DOWN ZONE WILL
INCREASE PRICES ANOTHER THING
THAT'S CERTAIN IN THE ACADEMIC
LITERATURE AS MR. WESTFALL HAS
ALREADY SAID, HOUSING MARKETS
DO EXHIBIT THE LOGIC OF SUPPLY
AND DEMAND AND IF YOU ADD
SUPPLY AT THE TOP OVER TIME AND
IT IS THIS IS THE OVER TIME
PART THAT HOUSING WILL AGE INTO
AFFORDABILITY THAT'S ONE
MECHANISM BUT THE OTHER
MECHANISM IN THAT
AFOREMENTIONED UPTON UPJOHN
STUDY IS THAT WHEN YOU ADD
HOUSING AT THE TOP WAS I
WRITING THIS DOWN SOMEWHERE
PEOPLE WILL YOU WILL WEALTHY
PEOPLE CAN MOVE INTO THAT
EXPENSIVE HOUSING AND THEY WILL
LEAVE A LESS EXPENSIVE VACANCY
BEHIND AND AS LONG AS PEOPLE
KEEP MOVING IN TO SLIGHTLY MORE
EXPENSIVE HOUSING THEN THEY'RE
LIVING IN NOW THEY WILL KEEP
CREATING VACANCIES
IN SOMEWHAT
LESS EXPENSIVE HOUSING AND THAT
PEOPLE DO MOVE IN THAT WAY.
THAT KIND OF VACANCY CHAIN WILL
NEVER REACH TO THE TO THE LEAST
ADVANTAGED NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY WILL NEVER REACH THE
LOWEST INCOME DECILE AND THAT
IS WHY YOU ARE LUCKY TO LIVE IN
ANN ARBOR WHERE YOU HAVE AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE
BECAUSE YOU CAN USE THAT TO
BUILD HOUSING.
I'M PUZZLED TO HEAR THAT WE ARE
OPENING UP NEIGHBORHOODS TO
UNREGULATED AND UNRESTRICTED
GROWTH.
THERE ARE REGULATIONS IN EACH
OF THE THREE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
HOUSING PLAN CATEGORIES THE HUB
,THE TRANSITION AND THE LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL.
>> ALL OF THOSE ARE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
ALL OF THEM CONTAIN HOUSING AND
ALL OF THEM HAVE REGULATIONS.
INDEED THE LOW RISE RESIDENT
RESIDENTIAL IS RESTRICTED TO
THREE STORIES BECAUSE THIS BODY
ACCEPTED A REQUEST FROM CITY
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU.
THIS BODY HAS EXPRESSED A
FEELING THAT LOCKWOOD THE
HOUSING OF THE FORM OF LOCKWOOD
WOULDN'T BE A GOOD IDEA AND LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL IT'S TOO TOO
BLOCHE TOO INCONSISTENT WITH
WHAT MANY LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS LOOK LIKE.
>> THAT'S FINE BUT THOSE ARE
THOSE ARE RESTRICTIONS THERE.
SO WE HEARD A CONCERN THAT WE
WOULD CUT DOWN ALL THE TREES
AND JUST HAVE TWENTY STOREY
BUILDINGS IN.
THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING IN
BETWEEN.
IT SEEMS LIKE THE PLAN HAS A
LOT IN BETWEEN THERE THAT SEEMS
LIKE IT'S THE POINT OF THE PLAN
AND THAT'S WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT TONIGHT.
UM, THERE WAS CONCERN ABOUT
NATURAL FEATURES NOT BEING
EMBEDDED IN THE PLAN BUT IT IS
EMBEDDED IN OUR ZONING IN OUR
ORDINANCE.
SO WE JUST NEED TO SAY THAT IN
THE PLAN AND I THINK WE MADE
THAT EDIT ALREADY MOST
PUZZLINGLY WE HEARD THAT THE
PARKS ARE IN THE CHOPPING BLOCK
WHICH THEY AREN'T.
BUT EVEN IF THEY WERE YOU CAN'T
CHOP THEM WITHOUT A PUBLIC
VOTE.
>> SO IT ISN'T WITHIN THE POWER
OF THIS COMMISSION EVEN IF WE
WANTED IT WHICH I DON'T THINK
WE DO TO ELIMINATE PARKS SO
YEAH, THAT'S ALL I OH I WAS
GOING TO READ A SENTENCE FROM
THE UPJOHN STUDY BUT I WILL PUT
IT OUT AGAIN IN A NEWSLETTER
TOTALLY CITED AND REFERENCED
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT I DO FOR A
LIVING.
THANK YOU.
WOULD ANY OTHER THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS LIKE TO RESPOND
TO ANY OF THE COMMENTS OR ON
GENERAL COMMENTS?
>> YES, SURE MACHANS.
IN A SENSE A MARCH WE'VE BEEN
PRESENTED WITH A NEAR CONSTANT
DRUMBEAT OF DEMANDS TO DELAY,
SUSPEND OR OTHERWISE HALT WHAT
WE'RE DOING HERE WORK THAT WE
HAVEN'T DONE IN A LONG TIME I
THINK OVER SIXTEEN YEARS ON THE
BASIS THAT SOME ASPECT OF OUR
PROCESS IS DEFECTIVE OR
UNDEMOCRATIC CALLED TOP DOWN A
VARIETY OF ATTACKS ON THE
LEGITIMACY OF THE PROCESS AND
THERE WAS ONE QUOTE FROM A FEW
WEEKS AGO THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PLACATE AND SQUEEZE OUT THE
PUBLIC WHICH GIVEN HOW LONG
THESE MEETINGS ARE GOING, I
THINK WE'RE GOING ABOUT IT IN A
PRETTY INDIRECT WAY.
WE'VE BEEN LISTENING I THINK
FOR WELL OVER A YEAR THE
PREPARATION OF THE PLAN THIS IS
A GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
IT'S BEEN TRANSPARENT TO THE
PUBLIC AND IN A WAY AND TO A
DEGREE THAT EVEN ENORMOUSLY
CONSEQUENTIAL COMPLEX PIECES
OF HARD LEGISLATION ARE NOT
EVERY MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC HAS
BEEN PROVIDED WITH ACCESS TO
ITS PREPARATION AND EVERY
MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC HAS BEEN
PROVIDED WITH OPPORTUNITIES TO
SPEAK AND BE HEARD ON A PLAN
AND THE BROADER ISSUE
OF DEVELOPMENT AND LAND USE
REGULATION IN ANN ARBOR WHICH I
SHOULD NOTE HAS BEEN A CENTRAL
ISSUE IN EVERY ELECTION THAT
WE'VE HAD OVER AT LEAST THE
LAST THREE TO FOUR ELECTION
CYCLES AND PERHAPS LONGER THAN
THAT THOSE ELECTIONS WHICH
SUPPLY THE COUNCILS DEMOCRATIC
LEGITIMACY TO INITIATE DIRECT
AND APPROVE THIS PRODUCT AND
THE BRAND SPECIFIC PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS WHICH HAS
BEEN FAR MORE RIGOROUS THAN
WHAT STATE LAW REQUIRES HAVE
PROVIDED VOTERS AND RESIDENTS
WITH INNUMERABLE AND ONGOING
OPPORTUNITIES TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE PROCESS, PROVIDE THEIR
INPUT AND BE HEARD AND THAT
WILL CONTINUE TO OCCUR UNTIL
THE PLAN IS DONE.
BUT THAT PUBLIC ACCESS AND
TRANSPARENCY HAS COME AT A COST
AND IT'S A COST WE'RE PAYING.
I DON'T WANT TO BE CLEAR ABOUT
THAT BUT I THINK WE ALSO HAVE
TO BE CLEAR EYED ABOUT THE
BILL.
ANYONE ASKING TO FURTHER DELAY
THE PLAN HAS TO HAVE AN ANSWER
FOR THAT WHILE WE'VE WORKED ON
IT, THE CITY'S ELECTED
LEGISLATURE HAS REMAINED
LARGELY OUT OF DUE RESPECT FOR
THIS PROCESS AND THEY NEED TO
INCLUDE THE PUBLIC IN THAT
PROCESS LARGELY FROZEN ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE REFORM
ARGUABLY THE MOST PRESSING
PUBLIC POLICY ISSUE FACING THE
CITY THE VOTERS WHO ELECTED
THESE LEADERS TO ACT TO ADDRESS
THE CITY'S HOUSING CRISIS HAVE
BEEN ASKED TO WAIT.
THE DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE
PROCESS IS NEARLY FROZEN.
THE EXPLOITATION OF RENTERS AND
HOME BUYERS THROUGHOUT OUR CITY
CONTINUES UNABATED AND WE'VE
HEARD FROM SEVERAL OF THEM AS
PART OF THIS PROCESS WE
OUTSOURCE EIGHTY THOUSAND DAILY
COMMUTERS AND THE DESTRUCTION
THAT ACTIVITY CREATES OUTSIDE
OF OUR CITY ECONOMIC AND RACIAL
SEGREGATION AND DISPLACEMENT
CONTINUE IN MANY OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I WOULD URGE THE INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE URGING US TO PAUSE TO
GO BACK AND REVISIT PROFESSOR
LEVINE'S COMMENT TONIGHT ABOUT
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN HOUSING
POLICY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE AND
TO RECONCILE THEIR REQUEST TO
WEIGH THOSE COSTS.
THE HUMAN COSTS MY FAMILY MY
PERSONAL STORY, MY FAMILY'S
STORY IS THE STORY OF MIGRATION
MOVING TOWARDS ECONOMIC AND
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY.
I DID IT MY PARENTS DID IT, MY
GRANDPARENTS DID IT AND WHEN WE
ALL DID WE MOVED INTO HOUSES
BUILT IN THE PERIOD IN AMERICA
IN WHICH YOU COULD BUILD
LEGALLY A LOT OF HOUSING AND SO
WE COULD MOVE TOWARDS THAT
OPPORTUNITY THE LONGER WE WAIT
ON THE PLAN THE LONGER WE WAIT
TO LEGALIZE MORE HOUSING TYPES,
THE LONGER WE DEPRIVE THE NEXT
GENERATION OF THE OPPORTUNITY
THAT I KNOW I TOOK FOR GRANTED
.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER WHICH
JUST A FEW THINGS AND
UNFORTUNATELY THE COMMENTERS
AREN'T HERE IN THE CHAMBER TO
HEAR SO HOPEFULLY YOU WILL HEAR
THESE COMMENTS ON YOUTUBE LATER
OR MAYBE IF THEY GET CAPTURED
IN THE PAPER SO THE FIRST THING
THAT I WANTED TO NOTE IS NO ONE
IS FORCING ANYONE ESPECIALLY
SINGLE FAMILY HOME OWNERS TO
SELL THEIR PROPERTIES.
THERE IS NO MANDATE FROM THE
CITY.
THERE IS NO MANDATE IN THIS
PLAN.
I THINK PEOPLE CAN STAY HOUSED
IF THEY CHOOSE TO DO THAT.
THE OTHER THING IS WE HEAR
OFTEN THAT THE ONLY PEOPLE WHO
GET TO SPEAK IN THIS PROCESS
ARE THOSE WHO PAY TAXES.
AND I THINK WHAT IS TRYING TO
BE COMMUNICATED HERE IS THAT
RENTERS DON'T PAY TAXES WHICH
IS FALSE.
RENTERS ACTUALLY PAY OFTENTIMES
MORE TAXES THAN SINGLE FAMILY
HOMEOWNERS.
BY MY OWN CALCULATIONS MOST
RENTERS PAY BETWEEN FIVE
HUNDRED AND SEVEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS PER DOOR IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND DEPENDING ON
WHEN THEY MOVE TO THOSE
DWELLINGS THEY MIGHT BE IN AN
UNCAPPED ENVIRONMENT.
>> THEY'RE PAYING THE HIGHEST
POSSIBLE TAXES THAT ARE PRESENT
IN OUR CITY.
WE HEARD COMMENTS ABOUT THE
LOSS OF THE TREE CANOPY.
I DO WANT TO REMIND ANN ARBOR
RIGHT THERE ARE ONE OVER ONE
POINT FOR MILLION TREES THAT
ARE PRESENT THAT WAS AS RECENT
AS A 2012 STUDY THAT THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR COMMISSIONED TO
COUNT THE TREE CANOPY AND I
THINK WE WOULD BE OPEN TO
INCREASING TRIPLE CANOPY AND AS
I SAID LAST WEEK, WE COULD DO
THAT BY EXCHANGING CAR STORAGE
FOR PLANTING MORE TREES IN OUR
CITY.
>> THE OTHER THING THAT I JUST
WANT TO NOTE IS OFTENTIMES I
SIT AT A TABLE AND I HEAR MY
NEIGHBORS TALK ABOUT OUR CITY
AS IF ONLY THOSE WHO LIVE IN
SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED UNITS
ARE THOSE WHO LIVE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS OR HAVE
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER.
AND I JUST WANT TO REMIND US
THAT THE THE BRICKS, THE STONE
AND THE WOOD OF THOSE DWELLINGS
DO NOT MAKE OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER.
>> IT'S THE PEOPLE WHO DWELL IN
THEM AND EVERYONE WHO LIVES IN
ANN ARBOR THAT LIVES IN A
RESIDENCE THEY LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THEY OFTEN ARE
PROUD OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
THEY LIVE IN AND THEIR VOICES
SHOULDN'T BE DIMINISHED AT ALL
.
>> AND SO I'M GRATEFUL FOR
THOSE WHO HAVE COME OUT TO
SHARE WITH US THIS EVENING AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING
THIS PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
WHILE COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
THINK PEOPLE ARE REALLY SCARED
OF IS HOW HOW MUCH THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD COULD POTENTIALLY
CHANGE AND HOW QUICKLY AND I
JUST WANTED TO MAKE A STATEMENT
ABOUT MY NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
THERE HAVE BEEN 11 MULTIFAMILY
PROJECTS THAT HAVE GONE IN AND
IT HAS SOMEWHAT CHANGED THE
TENOR OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE'S A LOT MORE DOGS.
THERE'S LESS TRAFFIC ACTUALLY
MORE PARKING SPACES BECAUSE WE
GOT RID OF SOME OF THE CURB
CUTS, MORE TREES, THE BUILDINGS
HAVE BEEN REQUIRED TO PLANT
TREES AND MANY OF THOSE SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSES DIDN'T HAVE TREES
AND I'VE LIVED THERE FOR TWENTY
NINE YEARS AND THERE'S BEEN 11
NEW PROJECTS SO THIS DOESN'T
HAPPEN QUICKLY.
I LIVE ON MAIN STREET.
I LIVE IN AN AREA THAT WAS ON
COMMERCIAL AND MULTIFAMILY NEAR
CAMPUS RELATIVELY INEXPENSIVE.
SO EVEN IN AN AREA WITH THAT
VERY SORT OF RIPE FOR
DEVELOPMENT YOU DON'T GET A LOT
OF PROJECTS AND I THINK PEOPLE
NEED TO UNDERSTAND THAT THESE
THINGS DON'T HAPPEN.
THIS ISN'T GOING TO HAPPEN
TOMORROW IF WE PASS ANY ZONING
REFORM IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
WHILE.
>> I ALSO SPENT MY LUNCH HOUR
TODAY LOOKING AT OLD COPIES
OF THE MICHIGAN DAILY ARCHIVES
WHICH ARE VERY EASY TO SEARCH,
LOVELY TO FIND ISSUES AND IT
TURNS OUT THAT WE'VE BEEN
COMPLAINING ABOUT NEIGHBORS,
NEIGHBORS, NEW NEIGHBORS
DEVELOP MEN OUT OF TOWN
DEVELOPERS FOR AT LEAST A
HUNDRED YEARS I WAS ABLE TO
FIND SOME REFERENCES FROM
NOVEMBER OF NINETEEN OF EIGHT
NINETEEN TWENTY TWO SO ONE
HUNDRED AND THREE YEARS AGO
OF PEOPLE SAYING WHAT WE REALLY
NEED IS ZONING REFORM BECAUSE
THERE WASN'T ZONING AT THE TIME
AND THAT THAT WOULD SOLVE
EVERYTHING IF WE HAD ZONING AND
IT WOULD PREVENT OUT OF TOWN
DEVELOPERS FROM COMING INTO OUR
CITY.
SO I JUST WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW
THAT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
TALK A LOT ABOUT AND WE WILL
CONTINUE TO TALK A LOT ABOUT
AND THERE WILL BE PEOPLE ON ALL
SIDES.
BUT THIS IS NOTHING NEW AND
IT'S NOTHING IT IS NOT THIS
BODY OR CITY COUNCIL THAT IS
TRYING TO DO THIS WILD NEW
THING.
>> THIS IS A STRUGGLE AND A
CONVERSATION IN CITIES AND HAS
BEEN PRETTY MUCH SINCE CITIES
STARTED SO I THINK WE SHOULD
GIVE EACH OTHER SOME GRACE AND
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
COMMON POINTS ON ALL SIDES BUT
THAT THIS IS NOT BUT ALSO
REMEMBER THAT WE ARE ALL
NEIGHBORS AND WE ARE ALL TRYING
TO DO THE BEST FOR THE CITY AND
I THINK SOMETIMES PEOPLE
CONFLATE SITTING BEHIND A DYAS
WITH TRYING TO RAM SOMETHING
SOUND DOWN SOMEBODY'S THROAT OR
CHANGE A NEIGHBORHOOD WHEN
REALLY IT'S JUST WE'RE ALL
TRYING TO WORK TOGETHER AND TO
HAVE THE BEST CITY POSSIBLE.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE.
WE HAVE OTHER COMMISSIONERS UM
COMMISSIONER WEIWEI WHO LET'S
GO WITH COMMISSIONER APRON'S WE
BOTH KNOW I CAN BE RELATIVELY
FAST UM I YEAH.
BY MANY THINGS I WANTED TO SAY
I'VE ALREADY BEEN SAID BY MY
ELOQUENT CO COMMISSIONER SO BUT
I JUST WANTED TO I THINK I
CONTINUE TO BE DISHEARTENED BY
THE AMOUNT OF MISINFORMATION
THAT CONTINUES TO CIRCULATE AND
A LOT OF THE PEOPLE WHO SPOKE
TONIGHT AND WERE UPSET ABOUT
THE PLAN QUOTED MISINFORMATION.
SO I JUST WANT TO SET THE
RECORD STRAIGHT ON A FEW
THINGS.
IT SEEMS THAT SOME PEOPLE ARE
STILL CIRCULATING AN IDEA THAT
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL IS GOING
TO BE FOUR STORIES WITH NO
LIMIT ON UNITS AND NO LIMIT ON
WHAT COMBINATIONS.
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
UM, WE HAVE AGREED AGAINST THE
WILL SOME OF US AT LIMIT LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL THREE STORIES.
UH, IF YOU WALK AROUND
NEIGHBORHOODS YOU'LL SEE
EXISTING THREE STOREY BUILDINGS
ALL OVER EVERY RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THIS TOWN.
IT'S WELL WITHIN THE KIND
OF EXISTING, UH, FABRIC
OF THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT WAYS
TO LIMIT WHAT COMBINATION'S AND
UNITS OR DENSITY I SHOULD SAY
ANOTHER THING THAT I HEARD WAS
THAT WE'RE RAMMING THIS PLAN
THROUGH IN A VERY SHORT
TIMELINE COMPARED TO OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES.
SO WE JUST WANT TO PUT IT ON
THE RECORD THAT THIS WORK
STARTED ALMOST TWO YEARS AGO
AND BY THE TIME WE'RE DONE
WE'LL PROBABLY BE APPROACHING
ALMOST THREE YEARS.
>> COMMISSIONER ALREADY
ADDRESSED THIS BUT PARKS OUR
PUBLIC LAND THEY'RE NOT PART
OF ANY OF THE REZONING OR ANY
OF THE THEY WILL NOT BE PART
OF ON THE ON THE SLATE TO BE
RESERVED AS PART OF THIS PLAN
OR PARKS THAT ARE SUDDENLY
GOING TO BE AVAILABLE TO BE
DEVELOPED WITH HIGH RISE
DEVELOPMENT OR HOUSING AT ALL.
THE PERSON FROM THE DENHA PARK
WHO SPOKE ABOUT THEIR FEAR
OF 618 S ME THE YARD HOOVER AND
GREEN I JUST WANT TO REASSURE
THEM THAT ALL OF THE AREA
AROUND THEM AND IN THEIR PARK
WILL STILL BE ZONED
RESIDENTIAL.
IT'LL BE PART OF LOW RISE
IT'LL ALLOW THINGS LIKE THREE
RESIDENTIAL.
STOREY DUPLEXES.
IT'LL ALLOW THINGS LIKE THREE
TRIPLEX IS CURRENTLY YOU CAN
STOREY DUPLEXES.
HAVE TO USE AND MULTI UNITS
TRIPLEX IS CURRENTLY YOU CAN
THERE IT WILL NOT CHANGE THE
HAVE TO USE AND MULTI UNITS
CHARACTER IN A WAY THAT YOU'RE
THERE IT WILL NOT CHANGE THE
IMAGINING OF YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER IN A WAY THAT YOU'RE
AND THE LAST ONE IS SOMEBODY
IMAGINING OF YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD
TALKED ABOUT UDC CHANGES OR
AND THE LAST ONE IS SOMEBODY
ZONING ORDINANCE UPDATES THAT
TALKED ABOUT UDC CHANGES OR
WE'RE NOT JUST WE'RE IN THE
ZONING ORDINANCE UPDATES THAT
DARK OF NIGHT PASSED WITH NO
WE'RE NOT JUST WE'RE IN THE
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
DARK OF NIGHT PASSED WITH NO
THAT'S ILLEGAL.
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
WE ALWAYS HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING
THAT'S ILLEGAL.
FOR EVERY CHANGE TO OUR ZONING
WE ALWAYS HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING
ORDINANCE AND THAT WILL
FOR EVERY CHANGE TO OUR ZONING
CONTINUE TO BE THE CASE.
ORDINANCE AND THAT WILL
>> THANKS.
CONTINUE TO BE THE CASE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO HAD SOME OF THE THINGS
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
THAT I KNOW WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
I ALSO HAD SOME OF THE THINGS
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF MEETINGS,
THAT I KNOW WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
FEW MEETINGS BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF MEETINGS,
TAKING PUBLIC COMMENT AND I'M
FEW MEETINGS BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE
TAKING PUBLIC COMMENT AND I'M
ON THE LIST BUT MOST PEOPLE
TALKING ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE
KIND OF COVERED THE THINGS THAT
ON THE LIST BUT MOST PEOPLE
HAVE ALREADY CHANGED.
KIND OF COVERED THE THINGS THAT
IF ANYBODY GOES BACK AND
HAVE ALREADY CHANGED.
WATCHES THIS RIGHT, I WANT TO
IF ANYBODY GOES BACK AND
RECOGNIZE THAT DIFFERENT PEOPLE
WATCHES THIS RIGHT, I WANT TO
COME THIS AT DIFFERENT TIMES
RECOGNIZE THAT DIFFERENT PEOPLE
AND LEARN ABOUT THIS AT
COME THIS AT DIFFERENT TIMES
DIFFERENT TIMES AND I WANT TO
AND LEARN ABOUT THIS AT
THANK THE PEOPLE WHO SHOWED UP
DIFFERENT TIMES AND I WANT TO
AND ALSO THAT THEY DON'T ALL
THANK THE PEOPLE WHO SHOWED UP
SHOW UP AT THE SAME TIME
AND ALSO THAT THEY DON'T ALL
BECAUSE LIKE GOODNESS WE WOULD
SHOW UP AT THE SAME TIME
BE HERE MANY, MANY, MANY MORE
BECAUSE LIKE GOODNESS WE WOULD
HOURS.
BE HERE MANY, MANY, MANY MORE
>> SO IF YOU IF THIS WAS YOUR
HOURS.
FIRST TIME COMING THANK YOU AND
>> SO IF YOU IF THIS WAS YOUR
YOU CAME BACK AND SAID
FIRST TIME COMING THANK YOU AND
SOMETHING NEW.
YOU CAME BACK AND SAID
AWESOME.
SOMETHING NEW.
THANK YOU.
AWESOME.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO REITERATE
THANK YOU.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS AND
I ALSO JUST WANT TO REITERATE
AGAIN IF PEOPLE ARE JUST TUNING
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS AND
IN NOW YOU MIGHT NOT KNOW ABOUT
AGAIN IF PEOPLE ARE JUST TUNING
THIS.
IN NOW YOU MIGHT NOT KNOW ABOUT
THIS IS ALL PART OF THE PUBLIC
THIS.
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS.
THIS IS ALL PART OF THE PUBLIC
I CERTAINLY HOPE THAT WE ARE
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS.
NOT TAKING HOURS OF PUBLIC
I CERTAINLY HOPE THAT WE ARE
COMMENT AND NOT DOING ANYTHING
NOT TAKING HOURS OF PUBLIC
WITH IT.
COMMENT AND NOT DOING ANYTHING
I'M EXPECTING THAT OUR FINAL
WITH IT.
DRAFT WILL REFLECT THE IDEA
I'M EXPECTING THAT OUR FINAL
THAT WE ARE HEARING THAT
DRAFT WILL REFLECT THE IDEA
THERE'S SHARED VALUES IN THIS
THAT WE ARE HEARING THAT
PLACE OF LOVING THIS TOWN.
THERE'S SHARED VALUES IN THIS
HOW DO PEOPLE LOVE THIS TOWN?
PLACE OF LOVING THIS TOWN.
AND I THINK LIKE THIS IS WHY
HOW DO PEOPLE LOVE THIS TOWN?
THEY CARE.
AND I THINK LIKE THIS IS WHY
THIS IS WHY THEY COME HERE.
THEY CARE.
>> I ALSO HEAR LOTS OF SHARED
THIS IS WHY THEY COME HERE.
VALUES OR SHARED GOALS THAT
>> I ALSO HEAR LOTS OF SHARED
IT'S EXPENSIVE AND LIKE WE NEED
VALUES OR SHARED GOALS THAT
TO THINK ABOUT AFFORDABILITY
IT'S EXPENSIVE AND LIKE WE NEED
AND ALSO SHARE GOALS THAT WE
TO THINK ABOUT AFFORDABILITY
NEED TO THINK ABOUT
AND ALSO SHARE GOALS THAT WE
SUSTAINABILITY AND THOSE IN
NEED TO THINK ABOUT
TERMS OF WHERE WE HAVE PUT
SUSTAINABILITY AND THOSE IN
WHERE VOTERS HAVE PUT THEIR
TERMS OF WHERE WE HAVE PUT
POCKETBOOKS LIKE I THINK WE'VE
WHERE VOTERS HAVE PUT THEIR
HEARD THAT AGAIN AND AGAIN.
POCKETBOOKS LIKE I THINK WE'VE
I ALSO THINK THAT PEOPLE
HEARD THAT AGAIN AND AGAIN.
RECOGNIZE THAT LIKE WHAT WE
I ALSO THINK THAT PEOPLE
HAVE RIGHT NOW IS NOT IF WE
RECOGNIZE THAT LIKE WHAT WE
JUST PUT A BELL JAR OVER THE
HAVE RIGHT NOW IS NOT IF WE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WE CAN'T
JUST PUT A BELL JAR OVER THE
ACHIEVE EITHER OF THOSE GOALS
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WE CAN'T
EFFECTIVELY.
ACHIEVE EITHER OF THOSE GOALS
>> AND SO THINGS WILL THERE
EFFECTIVELY.
WILL BE CHANGE.
>> AND SO THINGS WILL THERE
AND WHILE I WOULD LOVE FOR THEM
WILL BE CHANGE.
THERE TO BE WIN WINS ALL OF THE
AND WHILE I WOULD LOVE FOR THEM
TIME, SOMETIMES THERE ARE
THERE TO BE WIN WINS ALL OF THE
TRADEOFFS AND THAT'S WHAT
TIME, SOMETIMES THERE ARE
ACTUALLY A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO
TRADEOFFS AND THAT'S WHAT
WE TALKED ABOUT THE
ACTUALLY A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEEDING TO
WE TALKED ABOUT THE
TALK MORE ABOUT THOSE TRADEOFFS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NEEDING TO
AND HOW WE HOW WE ENVISION
TALK MORE ABOUT THOSE TRADEOFFS
DEALING WITH THOSE.
AND HOW WE HOW WE ENVISION
AND SO I'M EXPECTING THAT
DEALING WITH THOSE.
BECAUSE OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND SO I'M EXPECTING THAT
THAT WE HAVE, WE'RE GOING TO
BECAUSE OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
SEE EVEN MORE OF THAT IN THE
THAT WE HAVE, WE'RE GOING TO
NEXT DRAFT AND I THINK THAT
SEE EVEN MORE OF THAT IN THE
THAT'S GOOD AND THAT'S
NEXT DRAFT AND I THINK THAT
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE REALITY
THAT'S GOOD AND THAT'S
IS THERE WILL HAVE TO BE
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE REALITY
TRADEOFFS PERIOD.
IS THERE WILL HAVE TO BE
>> AND SO I LOOK FORWARD TO
TRADEOFFS PERIOD.
CONTINUING THE CONVERSATION AND
>> AND SO I LOOK FORWARD TO
I MAY SAY THIS AGAIN FOR THE
CONTINUING THE CONVERSATION AND
PEOPLE WHO ARE NEW NEXT WEEK.
I MAY SAY THIS AGAIN FOR THE
RIGHT.
PEOPLE WHO ARE NEW NEXT WEEK.
LIKE BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S
RIGHT.
IMPORTANT.
LIKE BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S
WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE COME IN AT
IMPORTANT.
DIFFERENT TIMES AND THEY ARE
WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE COME IN AT
ALL WELCOME.
DIFFERENT TIMES AND THEY ARE
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
ALL WELCOME.
MILLS.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WE'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER NORTON
MILLS.
A LOT OF WHAT'S BEEN SAID ARE
WE'LL GO TO COMMISSIONER NORTON
THINGS THAT I WOULD HAVE LIKED
A LOT OF WHAT'S BEEN SAID ARE
TO HAVE SAID OR I'M HAPPY YOU
THINGS THAT I WOULD HAVE LIKED
HAVEN'T SAID I'M NOT GOING TO
TO HAVE SAID OR I'M HAPPY YOU
REPEAT THEM.
HAVEN'T SAID I'M NOT GOING TO
I AM CONCERNED THAT WE STAY
REPEAT THEM.
FAITHFUL TO THIS GOAL OF ASKING
I AM CONCERNED THAT WE STAY
PEOPLE TO COME AND COMMENT AND
FAITHFUL TO THIS GOAL OF ASKING
THEN TO MEANINGFULLY RESPOND TO
PEOPLE TO COME AND COMMENT AND
COMMENTS WILL BE IN MUCH WORSE
THEN TO MEANINGFULLY RESPOND TO
SHAPE IF AFTER ALL OF THIS IS
COMMENTS WILL BE IN MUCH WORSE
SAID AND DONE, WE DON'T REALLY
SHAPE IF AFTER ALL OF THIS IS
LISTEN TO PEOPLE AND AND AND
SAID AND DONE, WE DON'T REALLY
ACKNOWLEDGE THEIR CONCERN.
LISTEN TO PEOPLE AND AND AND
SO I'M JUST GOING TO HATE
ACKNOWLEDGE THEIR CONCERN.
MYSELF FOR SAYING THIS BUT I
SO I'M JUST GOING TO HATE
WAS TALKING TO THE PLANNING
MYSELF FOR SAYING THIS BUT I
STAFF HERE SUGGESTING MAYBE
WAS TALKING TO THE PLANNING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OH MY
STAFF HERE SUGGESTING MAYBE
GOD IS A WAY TO GO TO TAKE ALL
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OH MY
OF THIS FEEDBACK WE'VE BEEN
GOD IS A WAY TO GO TO TAKE ALL
GETTING IS ACTUALLY NOT TOO BAD
OF THIS FEEDBACK WE'VE BEEN
IN TERMS OF SUMMARIZING LOTS
GETTING IS ACTUALLY NOT TOO BAD
OF MATERIAL AND PULLING OUT
IN TERMS OF SUMMARIZING LOTS
THEMES I DON'T LIKE THE WAY IT
OF MATERIAL AND PULLING OUT
WORKS WITH THE WEBSITE WEB AND
THEMES I DON'T LIKE THE WAY IT
SCOURS THE WEB AND PULL STUFF
WORKS WITH THE WEBSITE WEB AND
BUT FOR SUMMARIZING PUBLISHED
SCOURS THE WEB AND PULL STUFF
COMMENTS IT'S MAYBE A USEFUL
BUT FOR SUMMARIZING PUBLISHED
TOOL AND THEY ASSURED ME
COMMENTS IT'S MAYBE A USEFUL
THEY'VE ALREADY BEEN PLAYING
TOOL AND THEY ASSURED ME
WITH IT TO SEE IT, TESTING IT,
THEY'VE ALREADY BEEN PLAYING
TO SEE IF WOULD WORK.
WITH IT TO SEE IT, TESTING IT,
I WOULD THOUGHT I WOULD CONVEY
TO SEE IF WOULD WORK.
THAT TO YOU ALL.
I WOULD THOUGHT I WOULD CONVEY
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A USEFUL
THAT TO YOU ALL.
WAY TO PULL OUT WHAT ARE THE
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A USEFUL
KEY THINGS WE'RE HEARING OVER
WAY TO PULL OUT WHAT ARE THE
AND OVER AGAIN BECAUSE WE ARE
KEY THINGS WE'RE HEARING OVER
PRETTY MUCH AT THIS POINT
AND OVER AGAIN BECAUSE WE ARE
HEARING SOME THINGS.
PRETTY MUCH AT THIS POINT
WE'RE ALSO HEARING SOME NEW
HEARING SOME THINGS.
THINGS THAT I WANT TO EXPLORE
WE'RE ALSO HEARING SOME NEW
MORE LIKE THE WATER SUPPLY
THINGS THAT I WANT TO EXPLORE
QUESTIONS THAT CAME UP TONIGHT
MORE LIKE THE WATER SUPPLY
IN WATER CONTAMINATION.
QUESTIONS THAT CAME UP TONIGHT
THERE'S SOME ISSUES THAT ARE
IN WATER CONTAMINATION.
POPPING UP THAT WE DEFINITELY
THERE'S SOME ISSUES THAT ARE
SHOULD PAY ATTENTION TO.
POPPING UP THAT WE DEFINITELY
I'M NOT SURE HOW OR WHEN TO
SHOULD PAY ATTENTION TO.
FOLD THOSE INTO THE
I'M NOT SURE HOW OR WHEN TO
CONVERSATION AND THEN I WANT TO
FOLD THOSE INTO THE
MAKE SURE THAT WE DON'T WANT
CONVERSATION AND THEN I WANT TO
THE PLAN TO BE A FOR TAT.
MAKE SURE THAT WE DON'T WANT
SOMEONE SAID THIS HERE'S A
THE PLAN TO BE A FOR TAT.
RESPONSE TO THAT.
SOMEONE SAID THIS HERE'S A
BUT BUT WE DO NEED TO
RESPONSE TO THAT.
ACKNOWLEDGE I THINK FOR THE
BUT BUT WE DO NEED TO
SAKE OF TRYING TO PRODUCE A
ACKNOWLEDGE I THINK FOR THE
PLAN THAT WAS ACCESSIBLE WAS A
SAKE OF TRYING TO PRODUCE A
BIT THIN ON DETAIL AND A KIND
PLAN THAT WAS ACCESSIBLE WAS A
OF DISCUSSION THE BACKGROUND
BIT THIN ON DETAIL AND A KIND
JUSTIFICATIONS AND WE'VE BEEN
OF DISCUSSION THE BACKGROUND
CALLED TO TASK FOR THAT AND WE
JUSTIFICATIONS AND WE'VE BEEN
NEED TO RECTIFY THAT.
CALLED TO TASK FOR THAT AND WE
SO AND I'M NOT POINTING FINGERS
NEED TO RECTIFY THAT.
BUT WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
SO AND I'M NOT POINTING FINGERS
AND DO A BETTER JOB OF LAYING
BUT WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THAT STUFF OUT SO THAT AT THE
AND DO A BETTER JOB OF LAYING
END OF THE DAY FOLKS WHO FEEL
THAT STUFF OUT SO THAT AT THE
LIKE THEY CAME IN AND SPOKE WE
END OF THE DAY FOLKS WHO FEEL
ACTUALLY HEARD THAT'LL BE
LIKE THEY CAME IN AND SPOKE WE
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR THE
ACTUALLY HEARD THAT'LL BE
OUTCOME OF ALL OF THIS AND I
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR THE
THINK I'M JUST THINKING
OUTCOME OF ALL OF THIS AND I
EVERYBODY ALREADY KNOWS I WILL
THINK I'M JUST THINKING
I'VE BEEN TEACHING PLANNING FOR
EVERYBODY ALREADY KNOWS I WILL
THIRTY YEARS.
I'VE BEEN TEACHING PLANNING FOR
OH MY GOSH.
THIRTY YEARS.
DOES THIS REALLY DRIVE HOME HOW
OH MY GOSH.
COMPLICATED THIS WHOLE PROCESS
DOES THIS REALLY DRIVE HOME HOW
IS AND HOW DIFFICULT IT CAN BE
COMPLICATED THIS WHOLE PROCESS
TO UNDERSTAND WHERE DIFFERENT
IS AND HOW DIFFICULT IT CAN BE
KINDS OF DECISIONS GET MADE?
TO UNDERSTAND WHERE DIFFERENT
THE PLAN IS GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
KINDS OF DECISIONS GET MADE?
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAVE
THE PLAN IS GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
OVERNIGHT EFFECTS THAT'S GOING
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAVE
TO MAKE SOME FOLKS WHO WANT TO
OVERNIGHT EFFECTS THAT'S GOING
SEE IMMEDIATE CHANGE AND HAPPY.
TO MAKE SOME FOLKS WHO WANT TO
IT'S GOING TO MAKE FOLKS WHO
SEE IMMEDIATE CHANGE AND HAPPY.
ARE REALLY SCARED TO DEATH
IT'S GOING TO MAKE FOLKS WHO
OF CHANGE MAYBE RELIEVED BUT
ARE REALLY SCARED TO DEATH
IT'S AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT AND
OF CHANGE MAYBE RELIEVED BUT
WE NEED TO TAKE CARE.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT AND
AND WHAT POLICY
IS WE
ESTABLISHED BECAUSE THEY'LL
THEY'LL PROVIDE IMPORTANT
GUIDANCE AND SO IT'S WORTH
TAKING THE TIME TO WORK THAT
THROUGH THE REALLY DIFFICULT
THINGS THAT I THINK FOLKS ARE
REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT ARE THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
I THINK A LOT OF THE CONCERNS
ARE MUCH MORE ABOUT DESIGN THAN
THEY ARE ABOUT DENSITY PER SAY
AND WE'LL NEED TO REALLY NOODLE
ON THOSE CAREFULLY AS THE
FOLLOW ON THE GOAL THERE WILL
BE TO PROVIDE ENOUGH GUIDANCE
AND MAKE SURE THAT WHATEVER
CHANGES ARE HAPPENING TO
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE CONVERSANT
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND NOT
OVERLY DISRUPTIVE BUT NOT GIVE
SO MUCH ABILITY TO NEIGHBORS TO
COMPLAIN THAT THEY HAVE NO
AUTOMATIC VETO ON EVERYTHING
THAT SO MUCH OF THIS EFFORT IS
GOING HAVE TO BE WALKING THE
LINE BETWEEN ALLOWING EFFECTIVE
CHANGE IT REALLY IS IN THE
BENEFIT OF THE COMMUNITY WHILE
LISTENING TO FOLKS BUT NOT
GIVING THEM VETO POWERS TO STOP
EVERYTHING.
>> THAT'S ALL STUFF THAT I
THINK WE'RE ALL FAMILIAR WITH
NOW I'M SPEAKING TO THE FOLKS
WHO ARE WATCHING THE LATE NIGHT
VIDEOS THOSE WILL BE THOSE WILL
BE THE CHALLENGES THAT WE
CONFRONT GOING FORWARD IS HOW
TO STRIKE THAT LINE.
WHERE'S THE RIGHT PLACE TO PUT
THE DETAIL?
WHERE'S THE RIGHT PLACE TO
STRIKE STRIKE THAT BALANCE?
OK, I'M ON A SOAPBOX ON MY
STUFF.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER, DO WE
HAVE ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO RESPOND TO
ANY OF THE COMMENTS THAT THEY
HEARD?
I THINK ACTUALLY EVERYONE SPOKE
SO THERE WAS ONLY ONE THING
THAT I WANTED TO MENTION.
I'VE HEARD ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE
CONCERNS AND I WANT TO SAY THAT
DURING THE ACTUAL SITE PLAN
PROCESS IT GOES TO EVERY
DIVISION TO REVIEW THESE ITEMS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I'VE
HEARD CONSISTENTLY IS ABOUT
STORMWATCH AND I DO WANT TO
ADDRESS THAT.
SO THE WASHTENAW COUNTY WATER
RESOURCE COMMISSIONER PUBLISHES
STORMWATER STANDARDS AND
ACTUALLY THE VAST MAJORITY
OF ANN ARBOR PROPERTIES DO NOT
COMPLY WITH CURRENT STANDARDS
BECAUSE THEY WERE DEVELOPED
PRIOR TO TWENTY FOURTEEN WHEN
THE LATEST SET OF CODE
PROVISIONS CAME OUT.
>> SO THE STORMWATER RETENTION
REQUIREMENT HAS TO DO WITH THE
FIRST BANEFUL FLUSH.
THIS IS WHEN IT RAINS FOR AN
HOUR.
HOW MUCH WATER CAN A SITE
RETAIN BEFORE IT STARTS
DISCHARGING INTO YOUR
STORMWATER DRAIN?
AND RECALL THAT AGAIN
WASTEWATER SEPARATE FROM
STORMWATER WASTEWATER WATERS
WHEN WHEN YOU FLUSH THE TOILET
OR IF YOUR DENTIST IS WORKING
THERE THERE'S A SUCTION CUP
ETC. SO THAT IS SEPARATE FROM
WHEN IT RAINS.
>> RIGHT.
AND I THINK THE CHALLENGE THAT
WE HAVE IS THAT FOR EVERY
SINGLE PROJECT THAT COMES UP
STORMWATER GETS LOOKED ACTUALLY
THE MORE PROPERTIES THAT GET
REDEVELOPED THE BETTER OFF OUR
CITY WILL BE IN TERMS
OF ACTUALLY RETAINING
STORMWATER.
SO I WANTED TO JUST KIND OF PUT
THAT PROCESS OUT.
THERE IS SOMETHING THAT GETS
LOOKED AT EVERY SINGLE PROJECT
AND WASHINGTON COUNTY WATER
RESOURCE COMMISSIONER WILL TAKE
A LOOK AT THAT AND THEN I WOULD
BE REMISS IN SAYING IF I DIDN'T
ECHO MY GRATITUDE TO EVERYONE
THAT DID COME TO SPEAK BECAUSE
IT CAN BE VERY CHALLENGING TO
COME UP AND SPEAK PUBLICLY AND
THIS IS NOT THIS IS OUR
DOCUMENT.
>> THIS IS IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHAT I WANT.
IT MATTERS WHAT YOU WANT.
>> AND AZERRAD AS COMMISSIONER
MILLER SAID THIS POLICY IS
ABOUT TRADE OFFS AND WE WILL
CONTINUE TO WORK TO BALANCE THE
VOICES OF EVERYBODY THAT WE'VE
HEARD TO TRY TO PUT THE BEST,
MOST EQUITABLE AN ACCESSIBLE
PLAN THAT WE CAN AND FOR FOR
MYSELF BECAUSE I'VE HEARD A LOT
OF FOLKS TALKING ABOUT WHAT ANN
ARBOR MEANS TO THEM.
>> I MOVED EVERY SINGLE YEAR
OF MY LIFE UNTIL I CAME IN ANN
ARBOR 97.
I WENT TO BRYANT PATTENGALE
TAPAN PIONEER MICHIGAN
UNDERGRAD, MICHIGAN GRAD SCHOOL
ACTUALLY CHAIRED NORTON WAS MY
FIRST INTERVIEW FOR GRAD SCHOOL
AT THE TIME HE WAS CHAIR OF THE
PLANNING PROGRAM.
I LOVE THE CITY.
I I OWE SO MUCH TO IT AND I
WILL CONTINUE SERVING IT THE
BEST I CAN.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THAT
CLEAR THAT AGAIN THIS IS A
COLLECTIVE DOCUMENT THAT
HOPEFULLY REFLECTS ACCURATELY
REFLECTS UPON THE VISION FOR
THE FUTURE OF AN IRA FOR THE
NEXT 50 YEARS AND THAT WE WILL
DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
INCORPORATE WHAT WE'RE HEARING
AND THE BEST JOB WE CAN TO MAKE
THIS A MORE EQUITABLE PLACE.
SO THAT IS MY SOAPBOX AND WE
WILL MOVE ON TO NOW THE NEXT
SECTION WHICH IS TALKING VERY
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT CHAPTER
FIVE.
>> SO OK, WE ARE MOVING ON TO
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW
CHAPTER FIVE NOW WE ARE IN
OTHER BUSINESS SO WE WILL GO TO
STAFF PLAN REDUNDANT.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONERS.
I THINK BEFORE WE GET INTO
EDITING THE DOCUMENT I HAVE A
FEW THINGS I'D LIKE TO TOUCH ON
FIRST THEY ARE RELATED TO THIS
SCHEDULE LAST MEETING I WAS
ASKED WHAT'S OUR PLAN FOR JUNE?
>> SO I THOUGHT I'D GIVE YOU AN
IDEA OF WHAT WE'RE THINKING SO
TONIGHT IS THE LAST MEETING FOR
US TO REVIEW THE DRAFT FOR THIS
ROUND OF EDITS ON MAY 20TH.
>> YOU HAVE SOME DEVELOPMENTS
COMING YOUR WAY.
THERE WILL BE NO COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DISCUSSION.
I THINK WHAT WE WILL BRING TO
THAT DAY IS A REQUEST TO ADJUST
YOUR SCHEDULE AGAIN SO THAT IN
JUNE WE CAN START JUNE 3RD AND
JUNE 17TH START AT FIVE THIRTY
AGAIN FOR THOSE TWO AND THAT
WOULD REQUIRE YOU ALL I BELIEVE
TO VOTE ON ADJUSTING YOUR
SCHEDULE AND SO I CAN TELL YOU
WHAT WE HAVE PLANNED FOR THOSE
TWO MEETINGS.
>> UM, THERE HAS BEEN SOME
QUESTIONS THAT WE FEEL COULD BE
BETTER ANSWERED BY STAFF THAT
SPECIALIZE IN THIS.
SO IF YOU ALL ARE AMENABLE TO
THIS ON JUNE 3RD WE WERE HOPING
TO HAVE OUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.
THAT'S JUST A ONE MAN OFFICE
ATTEND.
WE COULD HAVE OUR SYSTEMS
PLANNING STAFF COME TO TALK
ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE INTRODUCED THAT MEMO LAST
WEEK BUT FOR MORE QUESTIONS AND
MORE DISCUSSION ABOUT
INFRASTRUCTURE, WE THOUGHT WE'D
HAVE THEM ATTEND AND THEN WE'VE
ALSO INVITED MESI WHO MAY OR
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BECAUSE IT'S
A TWO ZERO WEEK BUT TO HAVE HER
ATTEND TO TALK POSSIBLY ABOUT
THE CONCERN ABOUT SOLAR AND
TALLER HEIGHTS IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS AND THEN THAT'S WHERE WE
COULD START ALSO LOOKING AT THE
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX WHICH IS
ONE STEP MORE GRANULAR IN WHAT
OUR STRATEGIES VERTIGO'S GOALS
STRATEGIES AND THEN WHAT ARE
OUR ACTUAL ACTIONS THAT STAFF
HAVE TO USE TO OPERATIONALIZE
ALL OF THIS.
>> SO THAT'S PRETTY HEFTY.
SO WE'D LIKE TO START EARLIER
THEN WE'D REQUEST THAT EACH
SPEAKER ONLY HAVE TEN MINUTES
TO PRESENT AND THEN TWENTY
MINUTES OF Q&A.
SO THAT'S ALREADY GOING TO BE
AN HOUR AND A HALF RIGHT THERE.
UM AND THEN THE IMPLEMENTATION
MATRIX COULD TAKE SUBSTANTIAL
CONVERSATION AS WELL AS ON THE
SEVENTEENTH THEN UM WE WOULD
HAVE THE SECOND VERSION OF THE
DRAFT UM WE WILL HOPEFULLY GET
IT TO YOU BEFORE THEN HOPEFULLY
BY THE TENTH.
SO YOU HAVE AT LEAST A WEEK TO
REVIEW.
UM CURRENTLY WE ONLY HAVE ONE
MEETING SCHEDULED FOR YOU TO
REVIEW THE SECOND DRAFT.
UM THAT MEETING IS ALSO WHEN
ARBOR S RETURNS.
UM SO THAT COULD ALSO BE A LONG
MEETING.
THERE IS A LITTLE WIGGLE ROOM
TO CONTINUE THE CONVERSATION ON
THE TWENTY FOURTH UM SO WE
COULD HAVE A SECOND MEETING
MAYBE DEDICATED TO THE SECOND
DRAFT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
BUT WE WERE PERHAPS WAITING TO
SEE HOW IT GOES OR WHAT YOU ALL
WOULD LIKE TO DO.
>> GOT IT.
SO TO MAKE SURE THAT I RECAP
THE ACTIONS WE NEED TO TAKE
TODAY WOULD BE TO HAVE A FORMAL
VOTE ON JUNE 3RD AND JUNE 10TH
TO START AT FIVE THIRTY.
>> SO THAT WOULD BE INTRODUCED
AT NEXT MEETING.
OH OK.
GOT IT UNDERSTOOD.
AND THEN WE HAVE TO TALK ALSO
ABOUT INCLUDING AN ADDITIONAL
MEETING ON JUNE 24TH AS THE
FOURTH TUESDAY DID WE ALREADY
AGREE ON THAT?
I FEEL LIKE WE ALL SAID WE
WOULD START COMING FORTH
TUESDAY.
WELL SO THE TWENTY THE TWENTY
FOURTH IS CURRENTLY SET ASIDE.
>> IT'S LIKE A SUBCOMMITTEE
MEETING WHICH IS NO LONGER
BECAUSE WE'RE ALL TOGETHER
REVIEWING THIS DOCUMENT.
SO UM THERE'S CURRENTLY NOTHING
ON THAT AGENDA AND SO IF WE
NEEDED EXTRA TIME IF YOU WANTED
MORE THAN ONE SESSION TO REVIEW
THAT DOCUMENT BUT I SUPPOSE
THAT WOULD COME TO YOU ON MAY
20TH AS WELL BECAUSE THAT WOULD
BE ADJUSTMENT TO YOUR SCHEDULE,
IS THAT CORRECT?
UM, ALSO WE DO HAVE JUNE 10TH
THAT'S WORK SESSION.
WE WERE CONTEMPLATING KEEPING
THAT AS A WORK SESSION.
>> UM, WE HAVE UH A TENTATIVE
UPDATE FROM OUR TRANSPORTATION
TEAM AND SOME OF THE
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS THAT
CITY COUNCIL HAS BEEN DIRECTING
THEM TO START LOOKING INTO.
>> UM, WE ALSO UM WE'RE
CONTEMPLATING PRESENTING OUR
WORK PLAN UM POTENTIALLY AT
THAT NETWORK SESSION AND WE
THOUGHT IT WOULD BE ALSO AN
OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE THAT
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX
POTENTIALLY AT THAT MEETING.
>> UM, FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
AS WELL OR EXCUSE ME INTRODUCE
THAT AT THE THIRD AND IF WE
WANTED IF YOU HAD SOME MORE
TIME THAT YOU WANT TO SPEND ON
IT DEDICATES POTENTIALLY
ADDITIONAL TIME AT THE WORK
SESSION ON THAT.
SO UM SO I DID HEAR SOMEBODY
ASKING ABOUT YOUR INTENTION
JUST WANTED TO CLEAR WE DO SOME
WORK SCHEDULE WE WERE
CONTEMPLATING KEEPING THAT AS A
WORK SESSION.
>> UM OK.
I UNDERSTOOD COMMISSIONER ADAM
,I UNDERSTAND THE RATIONALE
FOR EXTENDING ON THE THIRD SO
WE HAVE AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SYSTEMS PLANNING AT OUR SITE
COMING IN.
WE HAVE NO PLANNED TOPICS AND
NO NO WHAT ELSE DO WE HAVE IN
THE IMPLEMENTATION MEETING
INTRODUCING AT THAT TIME?
>> OK, AND WHAT DOES ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT WANT TO TALK ABOUT
?
WELL, I DON'T KNOW IF ANY
OF YOU HAVE MET
HIM.
HE'S BRAND NEW AND SO PART
OF IT WOULD BE AN INTRODUCTION
AND PART OF IT WOULD BE
EXPLAINING MORE ABOUT THE
COMMENTS THAT HE PROVIDED FOR
THE DRAFT THAT HE PROVIDED PLUS
THE OTHER EDITS THAT HE
PROVIDED IN LAST MEETING.
OK, UH, QUESTION WHICH UH DID I
UNDERSTAND YOU CORRECTLY THAT
OUR JUNE 17 MEETING IS THE
PURPOSE OF MEETING?
>> CORRECT.
OK, SO CLEARLY I WOULD LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THAT WE SEPARATE
THOSE BECAUSE THE DISCUSSION
FOR OUR S THEY ACTUALLY HAD A
HALF HOUR FOR PRESENT FOR
TWENTY MINUTES FOR PRESENTATION
AND THERE WAS A LOT
OF DISCUSSION BEFORE THAT AND I
,I FEEL UNLESS WE WERE GOING
TO MEET AT FIVE THIRTY AND THEN
THAT'S WHAT IT'S PROPOSED BUT
WE HAVE NO CONTROL OVER THE
COMMENTS AND WE JUST DID THREE
AND A HALF HOURS OF COMMENTS
TONIGHT AND ALL WE HAVE IS THE
PLAN BUT WE'LL HAVE THE SECOND
DRAFT OF THE PLAN PLUS OUR S
YEAH I WOULD BE OPEN TO IT ALSO
I'LL BE JUST FOR PURE
TRANSPARENCY.
>> I'M RECUSED EVEN IF I DON'T
WORK AT ALL ANY MORE SO SO JUST
AS A HOBBY I'M HAPPY TO
SEPARATE IT BECAUSE I DON'T
THINK I WOULD ACTUALLY WHEN DO
WE ELECT NEW MEMBERS OR NEW
OFFICERS?
>> IS THAT IN JUNE AS WELL?
THAT'S JULY 15TH.
>> OK SO I WOULD I WOULD
STRONGLY RECOMMEND THAT WE WE
FIGURE OUT HOW TO MOVE THE UH
REVISION OF THE COMP PLAN AWAY
FROM THE SEVENTEENTH.
OK, YEAH I'M SURE I'M I'M LIKE
EVERYTHING IS HITTING ALL AT
ONCE.
>> I'M TRAVELING FOR WORK ON
JUNE 3RD THE TENTH SORRY YOU
CAN'T GO IN THE SEVENTEENTH AND
I'M REALLY I DON'T WANT TO MISS
ANY OF THIS HONESTLY BUT I'M
I'VE GOT THINGS I CAN'T LEAVE
SO I WOULD BE DELIGHTED IF WE
COULD PUSH THE SECOND DRAFT THE
PLAN AFTER THE SEVENTEENTH.
>> OK, AND THEN WE'LL MISS YOU.
>> YEAH I'M GETTING PERHAPS
COULD WE DO WE HAVE TO DO THIS
RIGHT HERE AT THIS PARTICULAR
MEETING AND PERHAPS WE COULD
SEND THE EMAILS JUST YEAH I
KIND OF COORDINATE THOSE TWO
BUT WE HAVE THE NOTICE SO THAT
THAT'S THE BIG THING FOR OUR
CELLEBRITE.
THE FIRST PUBLIC HEARING HAS
ALREADY BEEN NOTED THAT WAS
POSTPONED TO THAT DATE.
SO THERE BUT WE DO HAVE TO
NOTICE IF WE'RE PUSHING THINGS
UP TO FIVE THIRTY.
YEAH.
SO I THINK THAT'S ALREADY BEEN
CALCULATED AND WHY THE DECISION
NEEDS TO BE MADE ON MAY 20TH.
SO I WAS JUST LETTING YOU KNOW
OUR THOUGHTS ABOUT JUNE BUT YOU
WON'T ACTUALLY HAVE TO VOTE TO
AMEND YOUR SCHEDULE UNTIL THE
20TH SO WE COULD PREPARE FOR
THAT.
I GUESS WHAT I WOULD SUGGEST IS
WE GO AHEAD AND WE PLAN ON
PREVENTING THE SECOND DRAFT.
YOU ADD A CONVERT THE FOURTH
TUESDAY ON THE TWENTY FOUR TO A
REGULAR MEETING.
UM MAYBE WE GO AHEAD AND START
THAT ONE ALSO AT FIVE THIRTY I
AGREE AND WE PRESENT THE DRAFT
THAT AND THEN I WOULD JUST ASK
THAT AFTER THIS MEETING WE'LL
SEE WHAT IF ANY RAMIFICATIONS
THAT MIGHT HAVE ON THE OVERALL
SCHEDULE.
OK YEAH THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
>> YES.
UH BEFORE I MAKE MY COMMENT FOR
CLARIFICATION THEN ACCORDING TO
THAT THEN THE SEVENTEENTH WOULD
REVERT BACK TO 7:00 P.M. START
TIME BECAUSE THE ONLY THING ON
THE AGENDA WOULD BE OUR
RESULTS.
>> YES.
LET ME CONFIRM THAT.
BUT I WOULD ANTICIPATE THAT AND
THEN THE TWENTY FOUR WOULD
CONVERT TO A REGULAR MEETING
STARTING AT FIVE THIRTY REGULAR
MEETING FIVE THIRTY.
I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS SOME
SERIOUS CONCERN NOT ONLY HAVING
THAT ONE MEETING TO GO THROUGH
ALL OF THE CHANGES TO THE
SECOND DRAFT.
SO IF THERE IS I WOULD LIKE TO
ADVOCATE FOR A SECOND MEETING
TO REVIEW THE SECOND DRAFT
WHICH COULD BE JULY 1ST, JULY
1ST WHICH MANY PEOPLE ARE OUT
OF TOWN THAT WEEK OR SO.
UM, YEAH.
I JUST THINK IT'S UNREALISTIC
TO THINK THAT WE'LL BE ABLE TO
GET THROUGH IT IN A MEANINGFUL
WAY, ESPECIALLY I THINK WE
COULD ANTICIPATE HOURS
OF PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT MEETING
.
I THINK AT EVERY MEETING WE
HAVE TO ANTICIPATE POWERS
OF PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> UM SO WE CAN ADD IT TO JULY
1ST IF WE'LL HAVE A QUORUM.
BUT REMEMBER THAT JULY 17TH IS
WHEN YOU WILL HAVE THAT DRAFT
BACK.
UM, SO WE'RE NOW GETTING INTO A
QUITE A TIGHT TURNAROUND TO
MAKE ANY OTHER ATTEMPTS BUT I
THINK WE CAN STILL PUSH IT TO
JULY 1ST IF NEEDED.
WHAT ABOUT JUNE 10TH INSTEAD
OF THE YOU KNOW, CONVERT THAT
WORK SESSION TO REGULAR MEETING
AND DO IT THEN STORED IT THEN
WHAT?
>> ISN'T THAT WHEN WE'RE
GETTING AVERSION TO LIKE
GETTING IT THAT DAY AND THEN
WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT KIND
OF THING LS IT.
YEAH THAT WOULD EARLY FOR US TO
BE ABLE TO PROVIDE IT TO YOU
WITH ANY TIME TO REVIEW IT IN
ADVANCE.
>> I GUESS THE NUCLEAR QUESTION
JUST LIKE THIS JULY 17TH
DEADLINE MOVES BACK A WEEK IF
EVERYTHING SHIFTS BACK A WEEK
OR TWO WEEKS WHAT HAPPENS WHAT
I'M HEARING FROM THE LEFT YEAH
SO MAYBE YOU COULD LOOK AT IT
AND SEE I JUST I JUST REALLY
WANT TO HAVE A TIME TO YEAH
THAT'S ALL THIS THANKS SO FOR
THIS FOR THAT PURPOSE I WOULD
SAY FOR NOW LET'S PLAN ON JUNE
TWENTY FOURTH WITH THE FIVE
THIRTY START LET'S PLAN ON JULY
1ST PROBABLY WITH A FIVE THIRTY
START OK UM AND THEN MICHELLE
AND I WILL JUST GO BACK AND
FIGURE OUT WE'LL ALSO TALK TO
THE CONSULTANTS BECAUSE THAT
WILL HAVE RAMIFICATIONS ON SORT
OF ANY FINAL FINAL TWEAKS SO IT
WILL LIKELY RESULT IN AN
AMENDED GOOD UNDERSTOOD UM IT
COMMISSIONER I ALSO THINK THAT
WE MAY FIND SO WE'RE GOING TO
GET THE DRAFT ON THE 10TH AND
WE'LL HAVE TWO WEEKS TO CHEW ON
IT AND GET OUR COMMENTS IN THE
STAFF AND I'M HOPING THAT THAT
PROCESS WILL BE LIKE WE'RE
GOING TO BE LOOKING AT
SHOWSTOPPER ISSUES AT THAT
POINT.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE WE'RE NOT
GOING TO BE FINE TUNING THE
DOCUMENT AT THAT POINT.
SO IT MAY TAKE A MEETING AND IT
MAY IT MAY WE MAY NOT NEED AN
EXTRA ONE.
UM, I'M PUTTING MY CARDS ON THE
TABLE.
I MEAN ANYTHING THAT WOULD
EXTEND THE TIMELINE I'M PRETTY
OPPOSED TO BUT AND I'M HOPING
THAT WE CAN SPEND FIVE HOURS
THREE HOURS AND GET THROUGH IT
AS LONG AS FOLKS LIKE WE'RE
AGGRESSIVE ABOUT SPENDING THE
TWO WEEKS IN ADVANCE OF THAT
MEETING AND COMMENTS AT
I THINK
IF ALL WE'RE LOOKING AT IS
REVISING WHAT'S ALREADY IN
THERE, WE'VE GOTTEN A LOT
OF PUBLIC COMMENT ON EARLIER
LIKE AFTER WE DISCUSSED THINGS
THAT I'M TRYING IN MY MIND TO
FIGURE OUT HOW I HOW WE'RE
GOING TO AGAIN ADD IN SOME
OF THAT KIND THAT THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT TRADE OFFS,
HOW HOW WHAT WE'RE HEARING HERE
IS GOING TO BE INCORPORATED
INTO IT BECAUSE I HOPE IT IS IT
SHOULD BE.
AND SO I'M MAYBE THIS IS PART
OF THE UNDERSTANDING MAKING
SURE THAT WE CAN EXPECT THAT IN
THE NEXT DRAFT AND I IMAGINE
THAT AGAIN ONCE WE START
TALKING ABOUT TRADE OFFS THAT'S
ACTUALLY GOING TO GET MORE
COMPLICATED AND PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO CARE ABOUT WORDS AND
WE HAVEN'T REALLY TALKED ABOUT
SPECIFIC WORDS YET.
RIGHT.
EVEN THOUGH PEOPLE MAY BE
INCLINED TO DO THAT.
SO I BOTH LIKE HOPE SO AND WANT
TO PREPARE US FOR THE IDEA THAT
MAYBE IT WILL ACTUALLY BE MORE
COMPLICATED.
>> I'M REALLY HOPING NOT AGAIN.
SO WE WILL HAVE TO USE THE TWO
WEEKS BEFORE THAT BEFORE WE'LL
TALK SO IF WE GET THE FEEDBACK
.
SO THE PROCESS THAT MICHEL LAID
OUT FOR US FOR THE FIRST ROUND
WE DIDN'T REALLY FOLLOW IT
RIGHT.
WE SENT IN A LOT OF WRITTEN
STUFF AND THEN WE TALKED A LOT
.
WE ACTUALLY ENDED UP TALKING A
LOT ABOUT THE WRITTEN STUFF
THAT WE SENT IN EVEN WHEN IT
WASN'T CONTROVERSIAL, EVEN IF
WE ALL AGREED SO WE CAN
INCORPORATE WHATEVER PUBLIC
FEEDBACK WE THINK WE NEED TO
INCORPORATE OVER THAT TWO
WEEKS, GET IT REDUCED TO
WRITING AND THEN JUST WALK DOWN
THE TABLE AND FIND OUT WHAT'S
CONTROVERSIAL, WHAT'S NOT IF WE
HAVE BIG DISCUSSIONS AT THAT
MEETING ABOUT VALUES THEN I
THINK WE WILL NEED TWO OR THREE
MORE SESSIONS AND WE WILL DELAY
APPROVAL AND THAT REALLY FEELS
LIKE A BAD IDEA.
>> YEAH, THAT MADE ME THINK
ABOUT POSSIBLE PROCESS WHICH IS
THAT IF WE ALL TOOK ONE WEEK TO
SUBMIT WRITTEN COMMENTS AND
THOSE WERE COLLATED AND
RETURNED TO US AND WE WOULD
HAVE TIME TO FLAG THE THINGS
THAT WE DID NOT AGREE WITH OR
THAT WE WANTED TO RAISE FOR
DISCUSSION AND THEN WE COULD
USE THOSE TO FORM AN AGENDA AND
ESSENTIALLY IGNORE EVERYTHING
THAT HAD NOT BEEN FACT BECAUSE
I THINK PART OF WHAT HAPPENED
LAST TIME IS THAT WE DIDN'T
REALLY KNOW WHERE THE
CONTROVERSY WAS AND SO WE JUST
KIND OF STARTED TALKING TO
EVERYTHING I REALLY LIKE.
>> OK, UNDERSTOOD.
SO RIGHT NOW WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT JUST A RECAP MAKE SURE MY
HEAD'S CLEAR ON THIS JUNE 10TH
IS WHEN THE VERSION TWO COMES
OUT TO US WE TAKE UNTIL JUNE
17TH.
WE SUBMIT OUR WRITTEN COMMENTS.
WE HAVE COLLATED UNDERSTANDING
OF WHETHER WE HAVE ANY
JUNE
TWENTY FOURTH WHICH WILL BE A
WORKING SESSION NOT A REGULAR
MEETING SESSION THAT WE ADD TO
THE OVERALL SCHEDULE AND THEN
WE ALSO HOPEFULLY WE GET
THROUGH THE ENTIRE DRAFT AT
THAT POINT.
>> IF NOT, WE CAN TAKE A LOOK
AT JULY AS WELL.
SO SO IF YOU IF AGAIN FOR THOSE
WATCHING THERE'S NO CHANGES TO
AGENDA TODAY, IT WILL HAVE TO
BE NEXT WEEK.
>> SO JUST AS A HEADS UP.
>> OK, GOTCHA PLANNER BENNETT
EVERYBODY ELSE GOOD WITH WHERE
WE STAND ON THAT?
I JUST WANT PRESENCE ON MAY
20TH IS A SEVEN
O'CLOCK REGULAR
MEETING CORRECT.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANYTHING.
>> WHAT'S THAT?
NO WE DON'T HAVE ANYTHING THAT
MAY TWENTY SEVENTH THERE IS A
MEETING ON MAY TWENTY SEVENTH
OR C I WANT TO THINK OK
REMEMBER OUR C OK GOT IT
PERFECT.
AND SO DO THE 17TH JUNE 17TH.
YES ONE WEEK AFTER JUNE 10TH.
YEAH.
>> ALL RIGHT THANK YOU FOR THE
SCHEDULE WITH US.
SURE.
IF YOU SEE IN YOUR POCKET AGAIN
SORRY BEFORE WE GET TO EDITING
THERE ARE A FEW THINGS THAT WE
CAN GO OVER IF YOU'D LIKE BUT
WE COMPLETED OUR THREE OPEN
HOUSES ON APRIL TWENTY FOURTH,
APRIL 30TH AND MAY 7TH.
THE QR CODES ARE STILL ALIVE
AND WE'VE SENT OUT AN EMAIL TO
OUR SUBSCRIBERS THAT IT WILL BE
OPEN UNTIL MAY 12TH OR SORRY
MAY 16TH THIS FRIDAY.
>> SO WE ARE CONTINUING TO
COLLECT INFORMATION BUT THESE
ARE SOME PRELIMINARY RESULTS
THAT WE STARTED TO LOOK AT I
THINK ON MAY THE DATE THE DAY
AFTER.
>> SO THE PRELIMINARY HOLDS FOR
THE SPRING TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
OPEN HOUSE ARE LAID OUT HERE
FOR EXPLAINS THE LAYOUT OF THE
SESSION AND IT'S ATTEMPTED TO
BE A MIX OF QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DATA.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT THE THREE
GOAL AREAS THAT WE HAVE, WE
ASKED OUR ATTENDEES TO RATE
GOALS FROM ONE TO FIVE AND
STRATEGIES FROM ONE TO FIVE AND
THEN WE ASKED FOR THEIR
FEEDBACK AND OUR PRIORITIES.
SO YOU CAN SEE THERE THE
AVERAGE SCORE FOR EACH ONE AND
THEN YOU CAN SEE A SUMMARY HERE
OF WHAT PEOPLE SAID.
I WOULDN'T SAY THAT THERE ARE
NEW ARGUMENTS OR THOUGHTS OR
CONCERNS BEING BROUGHT TO US.
UM, I THINK WHEN YOU READ
THROUGH THIS IT WILL SOUND VERY
FAMILIAR TO YOU.
I THINK ANOTHER THING TO POINT
OUT IS THERE'S NO REALLY STRONG
CONSENSUS ON ANYTHING.
SO EVEN WHEN THERE WERE ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY OPEN
RESPONSES UM YOU CAN SEE HERE
THE HIGHEST KIND
OF CONCENTRATION OF COMMENTS
WAS TWENTY SEVEN COMMENTS
OF SURROUNDING DENSITY AND
TWENTY OPPOSED SO MANY OF THESE
WHEN WE WENT THROUGH TAGGED
THEM HAD VERY FEW PEOPLE
MENTIONING THEM OVER AND OVER
AGAIN.
>> SO THAT REMAINS A CHALLENGE.
I WOULD SAY UM THERE ARE ALSO
SEVERAL PEOPLE THAT ATTENDED I
THINK WE HAD ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY TO ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY AT EACH EVENT SO NOT
EVERYONE WHO CAME LEFT COMMENTS
MANY MORE CAME I THINK TO HAVE
CONVERSATIONS WITH STAFF, WITH
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS AND WITH
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THEY'VE ALL BEEN ENCOURAGED TO
SUBMIT THIS.
I TRIED TO REMIND EVERYONE THAT
I'M HAVING DOZENS
OF CONVERSATIONS.
IT'S THE MOST HELPFUL FOR ME IF
IT'S IN WRITTEN FORM BECAUSE
THEN I CAN DIGEST IT AND
SUMMARIZE IT AND SHARE IT BACK
WITH THE WHAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> UM, SO HERE IS YOUR SUMMARY
FOR THAT.
I'M HAPPY TO TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR IF
YOU'D LIKE ME TO GO THROUGH
MORE THOROUGHLY.
>> OK, I THINK WE'RE GOOD OK WE
WENT THROUGH THE SAME EXERCISE
WITH THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
THAT WAS ONLY IN PERSON THAT IS
NOT CONTINUING ONLINE SO THAT
IS FINAL.
UM WE TOOK A LOOK AT WHERE THEY
WERE CONCENTRATIONS OF COMMENTS
THAT YOU CAN SEE THERE'S FOUR
MAJOR AREAS THERE.
AGAIN THERE WASN'T LIKE I THINK
THERE ALMOST TWO HUNDRED
COMMENTS.
IT'S NOT LIKE THERE WAS A VAST
MAJORITY IN ONE AREA.
IT'S SPREAD ACROSS THE CITY.
UM AND I BELIEVE THE MAIN AREAS
WE TALKED ABOUT WERE MILLER
BERN'S PARK PLYMOUTH AND NIXON
AND THEN THE FLECK'S DISTRICT
WHICH HAS ALREADY BEEN CHANGED
.
UM, SO THOSE ARE SUMMARY FOR
THAT AS WELL.
THIS CAN JUST BE ADDED TO OUR
COLLECTION OF RESPONSES THAT
WE'VE RECEIVED FROM RESIDENTS
AND PERHAPS ADDED TO AN
APPENDIX OR YOU KNOW, RECORDED
SOMEWHERE PUBLICLY.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
SO THAT'S EVERYTHING FOR YOUR
AND I THINK WE CAN GO INTO
EDITING NOW BUT DO YOU MIND
PULLING UP THE UM DRAFT SO WE
CAN PUT IT ON THE SCREEN AGAIN
?
>> OK, SO IN YOUR POCKET AS
WELL YOU SHOULD HAVE A RUNNING
LIST OF ALL THE EDITS.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO MAKE SURE
THAT YOU THINK NIHARIKA WORDING
THOSE ACCURATELY.
UM BUT THIS IS A RUNNING LIST
SINCE WE STARTED UM AND JUST SO
WE'RE CLEAR WHEN WE MEET WITH
OUR CONSULTANTS THIS WEEK TO
TALK ABOUT EDITING THIS
DOCUMENT, I AM GOING TO
PROBABLY CREATE PRIORITIES LIKE
AS IN THE ONES THAT WE'VE
DISCUSSED PUBLICLY I'M GOING TO
SAY TO MAKE SURE THAT THOSE ARE
DONE THAT STEPS EDITS ARE DONE
WHERE OUTLINE WITH YOU AND THEN
IF THEY HAVE TIME BEFORE IN THE
SECOND DRAFT TO GET TO ALL
OF THE OTHER COMMENTS THAT YOU
ALL SUBMITTED THAT WE DIDN'T
NECESSARILY DISCUSS PUBLICLY
BUT THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN
SMALLER AND IT'S LIKE CHANGE
PRESIDENT TO NEIGHBORHOOD OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT ALONG THOSE
LINES I OH SORRY.
>> YOU GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
MILLS AS I WAS GOING BACK
THROUGH HERE THE QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAD FOR US FOR CHAPTER FIVE
THAT WE ARE CONTINUING TO
DISCUSS TONIGHT ARE ON THE TOP
OF PAGE EIGHT.
>> DO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU HAVE
SOLID ANSWERS FROM ON THERE
BECAUSE THERE'S SOME OF THESE
THAT I FEEL LIKE I DON'T AND
MAYBE I WAS JUST TIRED BUT LIKE
DO WE WANT TO DEFINE OR HOW ARE
WE THINKING ABOUT LOW, MID AND
HIGH DENSITY FOR EXAMPLE?
>> LIKE I DON'T KNOW THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT IF WE TALKED ABOUT
THAT I WAS NOT I DON'T THINK
WE'VE EXPLICITLY TOUCHED ON
THAT.
BUT I SUPPOSE WE CAN WE CAN DO
THAT TODAY NOW THAT WE'RE KIND
OF WRAPPING UP CHAPTER FIVE AND
THAT PRIMARILY CAME FROM
RESIDENTS CONCERN OR INTEREST
FOR MORE INFORMATION BECAUSE
DURING ENGAGEMENT AND DURING
THE EARLIER STAGES OF THIS
PROCESS WE DID ATTACH LIKE
HEIGHT RANGES TO THINGS AND SO
YOU'LL STILL HEAR PEOPLE SAY
LIKE WELL I DON'T WANT A
TRANSITION ZONE THAT'S SEVEN
STORIES HIGH NEAR MY HOUSE EVEN
THOUGH SEVEN STORIES IS NOT
WRITTEN IN THE PLAN.
THAT WAS A NUMBER THAT WAS
DISCUSSED.
UM AND I THINK IT MAY HAVE BEEN
YOU COMMISSIONER YOU WANTED TO
MAYBE HAVE SOME MORE
DEFINITIONS ABOUT WHAT THESE
THINGS MEAN.
SO I DID ADD IN HERE AND THAT'S
FOR YOU ALL TO DECIDE IF YOU
WANT WHEN WE SAY YOU KNOW, LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL, WHAT DO WE
MEAN?
>> SO WE KNOW THAT'S THREE
STORIES BUT WE DON'T HAVE THAT
SAME LEVEL WITH THE OTHER AREAS
AND SO THAT'S FOR YOU ALL TO
DECIDE IF YOU WANT TO BE
CONSISTENT WITH THAT OR IF YOU
FELT LIKE IT MIGHT BE MORE
PRESSING.
YOU KNOW, AND THAT WE COULD
LEAVE IT JUST FOR RESIDENTIAL.
>> IT WASN'T JUST THAT ONE TOO.
THERE'S OTHERS ABOUT UH I THINK
WE TALKED ABOUT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRAINTS THAT
WE HAD A CONVERSATION ABOUT ONE
LAST TIME.
>> BUT IN TERMS OF LEVEL
OF DETAIL, AGAIN WHAT WE'RE
HEARING IS ABOUT DESIGN AND I
THINK WE HAVEN'T REALLY HAD A
COVER .
WE DON'T THERE'S NOT TONS ABOUT
THAT IN THE CURRENT DRAFT.
>> AND SO IS THAT SOMETHING
THAT WE WANT TO INCLUDE IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND WHAT AND
WHERE WOULD IT BELONG?
AND SIMILARLY THE THE FOURTH
OF YOUR BULLETS ABOUT KEEPING
THE NUMBER OF HOMES WHICH I
THINK OR KEEP IN LIMIT OF THE
NUMBER OF HOMES OR EXPAND AND
HOW THAT WOULD BE REGULATED.
I DECIDE LIKE THAT'S SOMETHING
TOO THAT I DON'T I DON'T HAVE
CLARITY WHICH AGAIN MAYBE
THAT'S ON ME.
>> WELL, I THINK WE'VE BEEN
CLEAR ABOUT NOT WANTING TO
REGULATE BY THE NUMBER OF UNITS
.
RIGHT.
UM AND THEN I THINK THE WAY THE
PLAN IS DISCUSSED NOW IT JUST
MENTIONS REGULATING BY FORM
USING FORM BASE CODE .
>> UM SO IF THAT'S SUFFICIENT
FOR YOU ALL WE CAN LEAVE IT AT
THAT.
I KNOW MANY RESIDENTS ARE
UNFAMILIAR WITH WHAT THAT MEANS
SO WE COULD SPELL IT OUT MORE
LAST I PROPOSED TO CHANGE IT
REGULATED BY FORM AND
DIMENSIONAL RIGHT.
WHICH IS IN HERE UH AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE NINE PAGE ONE OR
NINE ELEMENT OF HOMES CHANGE
THE SCALE AND DENSITY REGULATED
BY FOUR BEDROOM APARTMENTS AS
APPROPRIATE.
YES.
OK, THANK YOU FOR REMINDING ME
OF THAT.
WE DIDN'T RECORD THAT SO THAT'S
THAT'S CURRENTLY HOW YOU ARE
ALL HAVE DECIDED HOW YOU WANT
TO DESCRIBE WHAT THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT WOULD BE.
>> CAN WE GIVE SOME EXAMPLES
OF WHAT FORM AND DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS ARE BECAUSE THERE WAS
THERE WAS AN EXCHANGE LAST
NIGHT AT THE LIBRARY OF SOMEONE
WHO WAS VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
WHAT FORM BASED HOUSING WAS AND
I THINK WAS MAYBE CONFUSED
ABOUT PREFAB HOUSING AND FORM
BASED ZONING.
IT WAS IT WAS VERY CONFUSING
AND NOT EASY TO IT WAS NOT EASY
TO WADE THROUGH.
IN FACT, I THINK IT NEVER GOT
RESOLVED.
>> SO EVEN JUST SOME EXAMPLES
WE'VE YEAH.
>> UH SO I MEAN SETBACKS RIGHT
ARE RIGHT SETBACKS A HIGH BLOCK
BRIDGE UM WHAT ARE SOME OTHER
MAJOR ONES COULD BE FLOOR AREA
RATIO THAT DEFINITELY NOT HARD
NOT NOT NOT EASY BUT YEAH THOSE
ARE JUST YEAH BUT LOT COVERAGE
IS HELPFUL I THINK LEAVE OUT
FLORI RATIO BECAUSE THAT'S JUST
SPIN THEIR HEADS BUT YEAH AND
SETBACKS RIGHT
.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
OH THERE WAS SIMILARLY A
CONVERSATION ABOUT LACK
COMBINATION'S AND I KNOW WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT I DON'T SEE
ANYTHING IS THERE ANYTHING
ABOUT WHAT COMBINATION I THINK
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT I MEAN
MAYBE WE CAN BUT IT'S JUST THIS
IS WHERE I THEN BEGIN TO GET
VERY CONFUSED OR JUST BECAUSE
THE GEOGRAPHIES OF EVEN WITHIN
WORDS BUT DEFINITELY ACROSS
WORDS ARE SO DIFFERENT THAT IF
WE WERE TRYING TO REGULATE HOW
MUCH YOU COULD DEVELOP ON IN
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL AND WE
TALKED ABOUT WHAT COMBINATIONS
IF WE GIVE ANY KIND OF NUMBER
IT IMMEDIATELY IS NUTS BECAUSE
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD YOU WOULDN'T
WANT TO SAY NO MORE THAN TWO
BECAUSE THAT GIVES YOU HALF AN
ACRE AND I CAN PUT, YOU KNOW,
AN ENTIRE FARM THERE BUT I'M A
BAD GARDENER SO I WON'T SO I
MEAN WE DON'T WANT TO I DON'T
KNOW HOW THAT ISSUE OF NOT THAT
YOU KNOW, PRESERVING THE RHYTHM
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DON'T THAT'S WHAT WE WILL DO
AND I AND I AND I HESITATE TO
YEAH BUT HOW DO WE TRANSLATE I
KNOW BUT WELL WE CAN LEAVE IT
TO THE PLANNING OFFICERS ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT MIGHT BE
HELPFUL IS TO TAKE IT
SPECIFICALLY FROM PAGE NINETY
SIX.
>> WE'LL TAKE A LOOK AT THIS.
WE ARE GOING BACK AT TIME.
YEAH WE DID WE REMOVE THIS PAGE
I THOUGHT WE MOVED THIS GOT OK
GODCHAUX WHICH VERSION CAN I
PUT THAT BACK TO THE LOCK
COMBINATION AND WE'LL POSE THE
QUESTION THAT IF IF THE PLAN
AND OUR REGULATORY AUTHORITY
SUCCESSFULLY USE FORM STANDARDS
TO QUOTE UNQUOTE RIGHT SIZE
INFELD'S DEVELOPMENT TO THEIR
CONTEXT, WHY DO WE CARE IF LOTS
ARE ASSEMBLED OR NOT?
>> I DON'T CARE BUT I FEEL LIKE
WHEN YOU SAY WE'RE GOING TO
REGULATE BASED ON CYBORGS AND I
THINK THAT IT IT IS WITHOUT
KNOWING WHAT THAT IS, I THINK
THAT THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTION
IT LENDS ITSELF TO QUESTIONS
AND SO I DON'T I DON'T
NECESSARILY IT'S JUST I HEARD I
THOUGHT I HEARD A COMMENT ABOUT
WHAT COMBINATIONS WAS LIKE I
DON'T REMEMBER TALKING ABOUT
WHAT COMBINATIONS AND SO LIKE I
THOUGHT FROM THE TABLE AND SO I
WOULD PROPOSE THAT WE FOCUS THE
PRODUCT ON THE LANGUAGE IT IS
IT'S IT'S CHALLENGING, RIGHT.
BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT THE TOOLS THAT WE MIGHT
USE TO DO THAT.
BUT WE'RE NOT IDENTIFYING
SPECIFICALLY THAT THESE TOOLS
ARE A DOUBLE THE SETBACK OR A
EXPORTS REQUIREMENT OR WHAT
HAVE YOU OR THIS LOT COVERAGE
REQUIREMENT.
SO BUT I THINK I THINK PUTTING
OUR EFFORTS INTO THAT RATHER
THAN BECAUSE IF WE ARE
SUCCESSFUL IN THAT THOSE BEING
MANIFEST ON ONE BUILDING ON ONE
LOT OR TEN BUILDINGS ON A
MASSIVE LOT SHOULD HAVE THE
SAME OUTCOME TO THAT CONTEXT.
>> YEAH, THAT FEELS RIGHT.
AND SO LIKE I DON'T LIKE MY
COLLEAGUES WANT TO TALK ABOUT
LIKE LOT COMBINATIONS BECAUSE
OF THE TOPOLOGY OF THE CITY AND
HOW DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS
HAVE DIFFERENT UM ZONING OR
EXCUSE ME LOT SIZES.
SO FOR INSTANCE ONE HOUR A
ALREADY TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET SO ONCE YOU COMBINE THAT
YOU'RE NOW UP TO FORTY THOUSAND
AND YOU CAN GET A LOT
OF COVERAGE BUT IF WE ARE GOING
EXCUSE ME TOWARDS A FORM THEN
IT SHOULDN'T MATTER IT SHOULD
HAVE THIS KIND THE SAME FEEL
AND PRESENTATION AND MY CONCERN
AND THIS IS THIS IS JUST A
POINT OF ORDER FOR ME TO RAISE
I AM VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
LANGUAGE OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD I
DON'T KNOW HOW WE TALK ABOUT IT
AND I HAVEN'T HELD TIGHTLY TO
THE LANGUAGE.
I'M GOING TO MISQUOTE A
COMMISSIONER BUT LIKE
CONTINUITY I THINK IS SOMETHING
WE WANT TO PAY ATTENTION TO
BECAUSE SOME NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE
BEEN HISTORICALLY SORT
OF CORDONED OFF IN THE CITY FOR
CERTAIN AMOUNTS OF DEVELOPMENT.
AND SO IF WE ACCEPT THAT AS AN
EMBEDDED STRUCTURE AND THEN WE
TRY TO MAINTAIN THAT, THEN WHAT
WE'RE DOING IS CONTINUING THAT
HOUSING SEGREGATION INTO THE
FUTURE AND THAT IS THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I LIKE IT TO
EVEN IN THE COUNCIL LANGUAGE
BECAUSE IT'S THE SAME LANGUAGE
AND AGAIN I AM NOT CASTING
ASPERSIONS ON ANYONE WHO
DRAFTED THAT LANGUAGE BUT IT'S
THE SAME LANGUAGE THAT THE PRO
SEGREGATIONISTS USED BECAUSE
IT'S ALL ABOUT SLOWING THINGS
DOWN.
IT'S ALL ABOUT INCREMENTALISM
BECAUSE WHAT THEY WANT TO DO IS
MAINTAIN THE SEGREGATION THAT
IS IN PLACE AND AND SO I JUST
WANT TO RAISE THAT LANGUAGE AND
SO THAT'S WHY I APPRECIATE WHAT
YOU HAVE ARTICULATED, LEONARD,
IS IF WE GO IN THE DIRECTION
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT, IT
SHOULD SMOOTH THIS OUT AND IT
SHOULD ALLOW US TO ACHIEVE THE
GOALS THAT WE WANT WITHOUT
EMBEDDING THE HOUSING
SEGREGATION THAT IS ALREADY
PRESENT AND PRESERVING IT, IF
YOU WILL, INTO FUTURE
STRUCTURES.
AND I ALSO HAVE A POINT
OF ORDER I THOUGHT WE WERE ON
PAGE ONE TEN PERCENT
COMMISSIONER MITCHELL'S
QUESTION ABOUT THE TOP OF ONE
OR EIGHT BECAUSE THERE WERE
FOUR QUESTIONS THERE THAT SHE
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU PLAN
BENNETT OR MICHELLE IF WE'RE
DOING MICHELLE TONIGHT HAD
QUESTIONS AND SO I'D LIKE US TO
GO BACK TO PAGE ONE TEN BECAUSE
IT'S ALREADY NINE SIXTEEN
EXCUSE ME BUT I DON'T WANT TO
BELABOR THE POINT SO I HAD
MENTIONED LAST WEEK THAT I
WANTED WE HAD TALKED TO
MEETINGS AGO ABOUT CHANGING THE
OLD FOURTH WARD TO TRANSITION.
I CHECK THE CHANGELOG AGAIN AND
IT STILL SAYS OLD FOURTH WARD
AND OLD WEST SIDE OK, ONE OLD
WEST SIDE TAKEN OUT THAT WAS
NOT PART OF THE THAT WAS NOT
PART OF THE STRAW POLL TWO
WEEKS AGO.
>> WHAT PAGE IS THAT?
>> IT'S ON IT'S IT'S JUST PART
OF THE MAP.
>> OH YOU MEAN ON THE MAP.
IT'S IN YOUR BUT IT'S YOUR
CHANGELOG HERE.
>> SO I'M LOOKING FOR OLD WEST
SIDE.
HOLD ON OLD FOR SAYS ON PAGE I
THINK IT'S PAGE THIRTEEN YOU
CHANGE LIKE ONE PAGE ONE ON ONE
FOR TOWARD THE OLD WEST SIDE
SHOULD BE TRANSITION DISTRICT
IT SHOULD BE OLD FOURTH WARD
SHOULD BE TRANSITION DISTRICT.
>> OH OK JUST OLD FOURTH WARD
YEAH UM I DO HAVE A QUESTION
BECAUSE I'M I'M STILL NOT QUITE
GRASPING THIS BUT IF BUT
COMBINATION ARE POSSIBLE AND
WE'RE NOT RESTRICTING THE
NUMBER OF UNITS I MEAN I THINK
THIS IS WHAT'S FREAKING PEOPLE
THEY'RE CALLING BLOCKBUSTING.
SO THE WAY THAT WE'RE CURRENTLY
DISCUSSING IT THAT WOULD BE
PERMITTED BUT BLOCKBUSTING HAS
A SPECIFIC DEFINITION IN
HISTORY.
IT IS ABOUT DEVELOPERS UNDER
MINING A HOUSING UNIT TO LOWER
THE PRICE SO THAT THEY CAN BUY
IT AT A DISCOUNT THUS BLOCK
BUSTING UP THE BLOCK AND
RESELLING IT AT A HIGHER PRICE
AND THEN TAKING THE PROFITS.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I WAS GOING TO
MAKE THAT COMMENT TO ONE THE
PUBLIC COMMENTER SAID UM BUT
THAT IS NOT WHAT WE ARE
IMAGINING.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT DENSITY
THAT IS UM ALREADY RESTRICTED
BY COUNCILS THREE STORIES AND
SO IN THIS IF WE'RE IN THE LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL WE I DON'T I
DON'T SEE WHY HOW WE WOULD SEE
THAT AS A BLOCK BUSTING
ACTIVITY.
>> OK, IF WE IF WE DON'T USE
THAT WORD AND IF THAT'S NOT THE
ACCURATE WORD.
THE IDEA STILL THOUGH IS THAT
WITHOUT USING A NUMBER OF UNITS
AND IF CAN BE COMBINED THERE
COULD STILL BE A LOCKWOOD
LOCKWOOD WHICH IS THE MAIN
CONCERN THAT PEOPLE ARE
BRINGING UP OVER AND OVER AND
OVER AGAIN AND THAT WE HAVEN'T
I DON'T FEEL LIKE THERE'S
CONFIRMATION ON IF THAT'S THE
DIRECTION WE'RE GOING OR NOT.
I I GUESS I'VE I GUESS I AM
HEARING THAT I'M HEARING THAT
THAT'S THE FOCUS ON USING FORM
BASED STANDARDS TO I DON'T KNOW
RIGHT SIDES WHATEVER GETS BUILT
ON THOSE LOTS, WHETHER THEY'RE
WHETHER THEY'RE A SINGLE LOT OR
YEAH I THINK I THINK TO BE
CLEAR WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
IS YOU COULD HAVE SOMEBODY
PURCHASED EVERY LOT ON A BLOCK
AND IN THE CONTEXT OF A
NEIGHBORHOOD IF THAT WOULD BE
POSSIBLE.
BUT THAT WOULDN'T MEAN THEY
COULD BUILD A CORNER TO CORNER
APARTMENT BLOCK ON THAT.
IT WOULD STILL HAVE TO MEET
THESE BROAD BASED STANDARDS
WHERE THEY WOULD HAVE TO
REALIZE WHATEVER DENSITY
OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE FORM
OF STANDARDS THAT GET
ULTIMATELY PRESCRIBED TO
REGULATE IT.
SO IT MIGHT IT MIGHT RESULT IN
TAKING HOUSES FROM A BLOCK IN
THIS MOST EXTREME CASE AND
ALLOWING THEM TO BE REPLACED BY
TWELVE NEW STRUCTURES.
BUT UNDER THE NEW CODE IT MIGHT
ALLOW MULTIPLE UNITS IN THOSE
BUT THEY WOULD STILL HAVE TO BE
BROKEN UP IN SOME WAY.
SO THAT'S WHAT I AM HEARING
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THAT THE IMPORTANCE IS THE
SCALING OF THE STRUCTURE IN THE
CONTEXT OF ITS SURROUNDINGS.
IT IS NOT WHETHER THAT
STRUCTURE IS ONE TO ONE ON A
LOT OR IT'S ONE OF TWELVE ON A
LARGER LOT.
>> I MEAN IT'S NOT THAT
DIFFERENT THAN THE WAY THAT IN
DC ONE WE LIMIT BUILDING A
CONTINUOUS BUILDING FRONTAGE OR
MAXIMUM BLOCK SIZE.
RIGHT.
SO THEY ARE JUST DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS THAT WE COULD IMPOSE
THAT WOULD PREVENT.
>> YEP.
OK, IS THAT THAT'S THE SHARED
VISION.
YES.
AND I THINK WE ALSO SHOULD
ANCHOR THIS IN REALITY WHICH IS
IN ORDER TO BUILD THE LOCKWOOD
AND ONE OF THESE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS
WE'RE LOOKING AT
A SIXTEEN MILLION DOLLAR LAND
ACQUISITION COSTS.
RIGHT.
WHICH WOULD MAKE THE COST PER
UNIT SO ASTRONOMICAL THAT IT
WOULD NOT PENCIL OUT.
SO WE CANNOT IMAGINE EVERYTHING
THAT SOMEONE HAS ABSENT
OF REALITY.
THERE'S THERE'S A FOUR ACRE LOT
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD RIGHT NOW
THAT MORSELL THAT NO ONE HAS
BOUGHT AND IT IS ALREADY ZONED
FOR HIGH DENSITY.
AND SO THIS IDEA THAT AS SOON
AS WE PERMIT THIS WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE IT'S AS IF LOCKWOOD'S
BAD.
I WOULD LOVE TO LIVE IN A
SINGLE DEVELOPMENT AND MY
SENIOR NEIGHBORHOOD THAT I
COULD STILL WALK AND GET MY
GROCERIES AND MY CHURCH AND MY
LIBRARY AND I THINK THAT'S THE
UM I THOUGHT OH I WANT TO
CLARIFY I THINK WE DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE ALIGNMENT.
>> I THINK THAT I THINK WE
TALKED ABOUT LOCKWOOD'S NOT
BEING APPROPRIATE WITHIN A
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT JUST GIVEN
THAT SCALE OF WHAT IT FEELS
LIKE AS WE ARE WALKING AND THEN
WHAT IS THE OVERALL BLOCK
LENGTH RIGHT AS YOU
CONTINUOUSLY WALK.
>> SO IT HAS TO DO WITH
POROSITY AND THE LEGIBILITY
OF THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
I THINK THAT IS IMPORTANT TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT.
>> SO WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
APPROPRIATENESS SO I THINK WE
WILL CONTINUE TO DIFFER IN THAT
PARTICULAR RESPECT.
>> SO I THINK I JUST RATHER
THAN USING LOCKWOOD FOR ME IF
WE COULD LOOK HOOVER AND GREEN
BECAUSE THAT IS IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
IT IS A BLOCK IT IS A FULL
BLOCK OF IT.
DON'T YOU KNOW I'M IT RESPONDS
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD BUT HOW
WOULD SOMETHING LIKE THAT
RATHER THAN A LOCKWOOD YOU
KNOW, SINCE TO ACTUALLY KIND
RESPOND TO THAT ONE OF THE WAYS
THAT IT'S POSSIBLE TO DO THIS
IF YOU ARE HAVING A LONG KIND
OF LIKE A WALL FOR A LONGER
BLOCK SO WHEN YOU HAVE MULTIPLE
BLOCK ASSEMBLIES IT'S POSSIBLE
TO USE ARTICULATION TO CREATE
ALMOST COURTYARD'S RIGHT WHERE
YOU HAVE KIND OF LIKE SET BACKS
IN BETWEEN AND THAT THAT
CREATES AGAIN THE VISUAL
CONTRAST AND KIND OF COMPLEXITY
NEEDED.
>> I THINK WHAT VOKES OR AT
LEAST WHAT I'M HEARING IS THAT
THERE'S CERTAIN CONCERNS WITH
RESPECT TO LIKE ONE BLANK WALL
OF A SINGLE MATERIALITY THAT
GOES INTO SPAN'S TWO HUNDRED
FEET OR SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES.
>> BUT I THINK USING DIFFERENT
TYPES OF MATERIALITY AS WELL AS
ARTICULATIONS THAT CREATE IT
CAN BE DONE IN A WAY WHERE IT
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE A MASSIVE
LENGTHY BLOCK.
>> ESSENTIALLY THERE'S THERE'S
GOING TO BE A GOOD ENOUGH KIND
OF LIKE SET BACKS IN MATERIAL
STANDARDS THAT GIVE THAT
LEGIBILITY SO THAT THAT IS KIND
OF A WAY TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
>> YEAH.
SO AND THIS IS A QUESTION MAYBE
FOR STAFF AND FOLKS WHO KNOW
BETTER THAN I DO ONCE WE GOT
AWAY FROM THE UNIT BASED
RESTRICTION ON SCALE AND
DENSITY THEN IT IS A TYPE
PATHETICALLY THE CASE THAT YOU
COULD HAVE LOT COMBINATIONS
RESULT IN A VERY LARGE
STRUCTURE IF YOU'RE REGULATED
BY DIMENSIONS REFORM BUT
TURGEMAN I THINK WE'RE MAKING
IS THAT THAT'S NOT A REALISTIC
RISK.
THAT'S A HARD IDEA TO CONVEY.
BUT USING THE LAW TO TELL
PEOPLE THAT IT'S NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN MEANS THAT WE'RE GOING
TO GO BACK TO SIX BEDROOM ONE
UNIT DEALS AND WE'VE I THINK
COUNTERMELODIES YOU'VE TALKED
ABOUT THIS MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC HAVE TALKED ABOUT IT.
THAT'S THAT'S A PRETTY ABSURD
RESULT FOR US IN THE MARKET IN
ORDER TO RESPOND TO A NUN LIKE
LIKE BORDERLINE IMPOSSIBLE
SCENARIO.
IT'S TOO EXPENSIVE.
IT'S NOT HAPPENING.
IT IS ANYBODY DISAGREE WITH
THAT?
>> I NEED TO BE PROVEN WRONG IF
THAT'S WRONG AND I THOUGHT THAT
WHEN WE GOT AWAY FROM THE UNIT
BASED RESTRICTION AND WENT AND
WE SAID LAST LAST WEEK WE
CLARIFIED ITS FORM OR DIMENSION
DEPENDING ON WHAT'S APPROPRIATE
THAT WE WERE NOT GOING TO USE A
LAW TO BLOCK OFF THAT
HYPOTHETICAL THAT IS TRULY LIKE
APPLYING THIS KIND
OF HYPOTHETICAL I I THINK WHAT
I WAS GETTING ON THE TABLE IS
THAT YOU COULD USE FOREIGN
INTERVENTION TO LIMIT YEAH.
>> BECAUSE YOU COULD DO THE
SAME WAY WE DO AN EASY ONE.
WE HAVE A MAXIMUM ADVANTAGE SO
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A BREAK.
YOU YOU CAN'T HAVE IT SO SO
THAT WE COULD DO THAT ON A
RESIDENTIAL SCALE IS THE
ANSWER.
>> SO I THINK WHAT I WOULD
RECOMMEND BECAUSE WE ALREADY
USE DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND
SO ADDING THOSE IS FINE
SETBACKS.
HYDES PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT.
I THINK WHAT PEOPLE DON'T
UNDERSTAND IS FORM BASE
CODE AND TO BE CLEAR THIS WOULD
OBVIOUSLY BE A HYBRID BECAUSE
FORM BASE CODE ONLY REGULATING
BY FORM WERE REGULATED BY USE
AND FORM SO THAT MAYBE WE COULD
JUST ADD SOME EXAMPLES OF WHAT
WE MEAN BY FORM BASED TO MAYBE
CLARIFY THAT TO THE PUBLIC AND
BRING IT BACK TO YOU FOR THE
SECOND ROUND TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
GETTING THE VISION CORRECT.
>> I THINK THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR ME THE WAY I
UNDERSTAND FOR BASE CODE WOULD
BE LIKE IN OUR DOWNTOWN WE KIND
OF HAVE A LITTLE HYBRID BECAUSE
THERE'S AT THE 12 FOOT MARK
YOU'RE REQUIRED TO USE A
DIFFERENT TYPE OF MATERIAL SO
THAT IT JUST PROVIDES A SENSE
OF SCALE AS YOUR PEDESTRIAN
THAT IS A TYPE OF A FORM BASED
RIGHT.
LIKE YOU'RE NOT REGULATING BY
FSR BUT YOU'RE REGULATING BY A
MATERIAL THAT WHICH CREATES A
DIFFERENT SEGMENTATION OR
VISUAL SEPARATION.
SO I THINK USING SOME EXAMPLES
TO GET FAMILIARITY WITH WHAT
FORM BASED MEANS WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR SURE WE DO WE KNOW
WE'RE GOING TO DELETE THE
PICTURE ON ONE OF NINE THAT I
BELIEVE THAT IT WAS TO REMOVE
THE TOP GRAPHICS SO THAT WE HAD
MORE ROOM FOR THESE BOTTOM
IMAGES TO MAKE THOSE LARGER
BECAUSE OF THAT GRAPHIC IN
PARTICULAR LOOKS LIKE EVEN
THOUGH IT SAYS IT'S ROWHOUSES
THE WAY IT'S DRAWN I MEAN
LITERALLY I HAD CONVERSATIONS
WITH PEOPLE ABOUT THIS AND I
WAS UNABLE TO DEFEND BECAUSE
THEY SAW WHAT THEY SAW AND I
WAS TRYING TO SAY NO, THAT'S
NOT WHAT THOSE ARE ROWHOUSES
THERE ARE THERE'S I GUESS YOU
WOULD SAY ONE WITH ARTICULATION
THERE BUT IT LOOKS LIKE A BIG
LONG THING RIGHT TO THEM IT
LOOKS LIKE A BIG LONG THING AND
IT'S JUST BECAUSE THESE AREN'T
LEGIBLE TO THE PUBLIC IN THE
WAYS THAT THEY ARE LEGIBLE TO.
AND SO THEY WERE INSISTING TO
ME, OH NO, NO, THAT'S JUST
THAT'S A BIG LONG LOCKWOOD LIKE
BUILDING.
SO THERE'S A REAL THERE THERE I
KNOW THAT WE NEED TO HAVE
INTEGRITY IN THE WORDS THAT WE
USE BUT THERE IS ALSO A REAL
COMMUNICATION GAP AND WHERE WE
HEAR IT EVERY NIGHT HERE, HALF
OF WHAT WE HEAR IS FRIGHTENING
BECAUSE IT IS FRIGHTENING BUT
IT'S NOT IN THE PLAN AND THAT
IS REALLY I'M TRYING TO HAVE
INTEGRITY BUT I'M ALSO TRYING
TO BE HONEST TO THE
CONVERSATIONS I'M HAVING WITH
PEOPLE AT THE END THAT I AM
WORKING ON THIS WHICH IS
BETWEEN HERE AND YOU KNOW, TO
MY MY 20000 SORT OF FOLLOWING
I'M TRYING TO UNDERSTAND WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT IN THE
PLAN AUT ENCOURAGING GENTLE
GENTLE DENSITY, GENTLE
INCREASES IN DENSITY AND SINGLE
IN THE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCES
.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HEARING
IS JUST THIS GREAT CONCERN THAT
SOME MONSTROSITY IS GOING TO BE
BUILT.
AND I IN MY INDIVIDUAL
CONVERSATIONS OH THIS KIND
BUILT THEN IT WAS FINE AND THIS
GOT BUILT IN THIS ONE I DON'T
OBJECT TO THAT.
BUT IN THEIR MIND THEY'RE
THEY'RE PERCEIVING ALL OF THESE
HORRIBLE THINGS THAT COULD BE
BUILT THAT ARE WAY OUT
OF SCALE.
SO BACK TO MY EARLIER COMMENT
ABOUT WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT HOW
TO ALLOW GENTLE INCREASES IN
DENSITY THAT ARE CONVERSANT
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
PICK YOUR ROAD.
I DON'T I'M VERY MINDFUL OF THE
YOUR LANGUAGE CONCERNS AND THE
HISTORY OF THEM BUT WE'RE
TELLING THEM WE'RE GOING TO DO
GENTLE INCREASES IN DENSITY.
THAT'S GOT TO MEAN SOMETHING.
WE'RE HEARING FROM EVERYBODY MY
NEIGHBORHOOD IS DIFFERENT FROM
EVERYONE ELSE AND WE JUST HEARD
COMMENTS EARLIER WHAT WE HAVE
TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE THEY'RE
DIFFERENT FROM EVERYWHERE ELSE.
SO WE HAVE TO ACCOUNT FOR THAT
.
WE'RE SAYING IN HERE SOME TEXT
ABOUT WE'RE GOING TO DEVELOP
FROM THESE CODES AND STANDARDS.
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO DO THAT?
WHERE IS THIS A PLACE WHERE THE
PLAN IS CALLING FOR GENERAL
GUIDANCE AND WE'RE GOING TO DO
THIS AND THEN WE'RE GOING TO DO
IT THROUGH THE ZONING CODE .
THAT'S WHAT WILL BE
APPROPRIATE.
WE NEED TO MAKE THAT MORE STATE
THAT MORE CLEARLY AND THAT WHAT
WE'RE CALLING FOR IS A STANDARD
SET OF STANDARDS THAT AREN'T SO
DEFERENTIAL TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT THEY CAN BE PUT TO
EVERYTHING BUT ALSO ARE SO
DISCRETIONARY THAT IT COULD
MEAN ANYTHING.
RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO WALK THAT LINE
AND I THINK WE JUST NEED TO
STATE MORE CLEARLY IN HERE THAT
LEVEL OF DETAIL WILL BE
ADDRESSED IN THE ZONING
CODE WHEN WE GET TO THE
CODE REFORM TO MAKE A
CONSISTENT THE PLAN IS THAT
WHAT EVERYBODY'S THINKING?
I THINK SO.
AND FROM MY CLARIFICATION, DOES
THE SENTENCE AND ONE EIGHT
STILL EXIST?
FURTHER ANALYSIS IS NEEDED TO
IDENTIFY ADDITIONAL MEASURES
FOR PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD
SCALE WHICH WILL BE EXPLORED
DURING THE REZONING PROCESS.
I THINK THAT'S AS FAR AS I
KNOW.
OK PRODUCT WELL VALID SENTENCE.
I THINK IT ENCAPSULATES EXACTLY
WHAT THAT SENTIMENT WAS.
>> BUT FURTHER ANALYSIS IS
NEEDED TO IDENTIFY ADDITIONAL
MEASURES FOR PRESERVING.
>> SO I'M COMFORTABLE WITH
THIS.
I JUST WANTED TO SUPPORT
STRIKING THAT GRAPHIC AND
MOVING I TALKED ABOUT MOVING TO
A LARGER EXAMPLE PHOTOS AND
STRIKING GRAPHIC FOR LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL ON PAGE ONE OF NINE
AND I WOULD SUPPORT DOING THAT.
I THINK THE GRAPHIC CAN'T BE
SAVED AND THE REASON IS THAT IT
ISN'T SHOWING EXAMPLES.
IT SHOWS A SHOTGUN.
IT SHOWS HOW HOUSING TYPE
SHOTGUNNED INTO A LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL WHICH I DON'T
IMAGINE IS HOW IT WILL HAPPEN.
AND IT IS I THINK MAYBE
REPRESENTATIVE I THINK A FALSE
EXAMPLE.
I'D RATHER SHOW PEOPLE LARGER
EXAMPLES OF THESE BUILDINGS A
SCALE NEXT TO OTHER BUILDINGS
THAT LOOK LIKE THEIRS.
>> UM, PROBABLY STILL MADE UP
FOR STORIES BECAUSE WE CHANGED
THAT AFTER SO THAT ABSOLUTELY
SO BUT DO YOU THINK EVEN EVEN
IF WE SORT OF TRIED IF TO TAKE
A SWING AT IT
MORE YOU KNOW THE
OTHER GRAPHICS I THINK DO A
REALLY GOOD JOB AND THIS ONE
FOR SOME REASON BECAUSE OF THE
NATURE OF THE DISTRICT I THINK
CAUSES SOME ALARM I DON'T THINK
IS CONSISTENT WITH WHAT WE
INTEND AND ONE OF THE COMMENTS
THAT WE HEARD IN TWO MEETINGS
AGO WAS THAT OH THOSE ARE
REALLY GOOD.
THEY'RE TOO SMALL SO WE CAN USE
THAT REAL ESTATE TO BLOW THEM
UP.
>> YEAH.
AND OK EVERYBODY I'M FULL OF UH
WELL JUST ABOUT THE
CLARIFICATION TO COMMISSIONER
NORTON'S COMMENT ABOUT GENTLE
THE PRESENCE OF GENTIL IN THE
PLAN COMES FROM THE QUOTES
OF THE RESIDENTS WHICH WE'VE
STRUCK AND THE ONLY PLACE THAT
IT SURVIVES IN THE ACTUAL PLAN
WOULD BE ON PAGE FIFTY THREE
WHEN WE SPEAK OF MISSING MIDDLE
AND SO IT'S JUST ONE MODIFIER
TO THE AMOUNT OF DENSITY THERE.
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE BETTER
FOR US TO SETTLE ON EITHER
MISSING AT ALL AS OPPOSED TO
GENTLE BECAUSE MISSING MIDDLE
INCLUDES EVERYTHING THAT WE ARE
DISCUSSING WHERE GENTLE FOR A
LOT OF RESIDENTS ONCE THAT TERM
IS USED THEY'RE GOING TO DEFINE
IT AND THEN IT WILL BECOME A
SCHEDULE BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
ABIDING BY WHAT THEIR
DEFINITION IS.
WE'RE MISSING MIDDLE GOES.
I CAN'T SEE BECAUSE EVERYTHING
IS TINY ON MY SCREEN BUT FROM
DUPLEXES TO LIVE TO MORE UNITS.
RIGHT.
AND THAT IS THE SCOPE BECAUSE
THAT WOULD INCLUDE THE HOOVER
AND GREEN BUILDING THAT WE ARE
SPEAKING COMMISSIONER, WHETHER
IT BE SPOKE OF AND EVERYTHING
IN BETWEEN.
AND SO I FEEL LIKE JUST TO HELP
US NOT HAVE TO HAVE THE SAME
CONVERSATION THAT WE'RE HAVING
ABOUT THE STORIES AND THE
HEIGHTENED BECAUSE THERE WAS
AGREEMENT OVER MY OBJECTION AS
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS MENTIONED
TO GO FROM FOUR STORIES TO
THREE WE HEARD THAT FEEDBACK
THE TABLE HAD A ROBUST
DISCUSSION ABOUT IT.
WE VOTED AND NOW WE HAVE MOVED
ON.
I THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
US TO SORT OF SETTLE IN ON THE
MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING BECAUSE
OTHERWISE WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
WE ARE EMBEDDING INTO OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS THE HOUSING
SEGREGATION THAT EXISTS THERE
TODAY AND I DON'T THINK I
CANNOT SUPPORT I WANT TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT BUT I
HAVE A STRAW POLL ON THE TABLE
AND I WANT TO GET THAT DONE AND
BEFORE WE MOVE PAST IT.
>> SO WHAT WAS THE STRAW POLL
WAS WHAT WAS STRIKING THE
GRAPHIC ON PAGE ONE OF THE I'M
SORRY.
I THOUGHT THERE WAS A GREAT
DEAL.
THERE WAS ALREADY A MINIMUM.
WE ALREADY I JUST DIDN'T GET
SOMETHING THAT I PUT UP AND SO
JUST REAL QUICK ON PAGE ONE OR
NINE, ARE THERE ANY OTHER KIND
OF LIKE THOUGHTS OTHER THAN
OBVIOUSLY ORGANIZATION JUST WAS
READ DURING THIS CONVERSATION?
A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS, MANY
DIFFERENT PROJECT EXAMPLES.
ARE THERE EXAMPLES THAT YOU
THINK THAT WE'VE EXPERIENCED IN
OUR COMMUNITY DEBATE AREN'T
INCLUDED IN THOSE TYPICAL
BUILDING TYPES THAT YOU THINK
WOULD BE HELPFUL?
DIDN'T WE HAVE A CONVERSATION
ABOUT HOW SOME OF THOSE ARE
INACCURATE, ARE CONFUSING AND
WE TALKED ABOUT SUBSTITUTING
SOME FOR OTHERS.
YEAH, DEFINITELY ONE ONE LINE
THE BULLET POINTS WITH THE
IMAGES AND IT WAS SOME
MISALIGNMENT THERE I THINK I
THOUGHT WE TALKED ABOUT LIKE
THE DUPLEXES ENORMOUS LIKE
THERE'S A MUCH MORE COMMON
VERSION OF A DUPLEX IN ANN
ARBOR THAT SHOWS UP ALL OVER
THIS KIND OF THING.
WE CAN KNOW WE CAN LOOK AND I
THOUGHT WE HAD A CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE ATTACHED SINGLE
FAMILY HOME PHOTO AND I'M
MAKING EVERY CONVERSATION AND
WE HAD A CONVERSATION ABOUT
BETTER IMAGES.
>> YEAH, BUT ARE THERE
PROTOTYPES THAT ARE MISSING
HERE?
>> THERE'S ALSO SARAS SO I'M
GOING TO COME BACK TO ACTUALLY
NOW HOOVER AND GREEN DOT
BROUGHT UP THIS IS THAT'S A
GREAT EXAMPLE.
IS THAT A SMALL APARTMENT?
IS THAT WHAT WE'RE IMAGINING IN
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE
I IF IT IS THEN THAT WE SHOULD
HAVE THAT SHOWN HERE IF IT'S
NOT, HOW DO WE DEFINE SMALL?
>> YEAH.
AND SO I DON'T THINK I DON'T
THINK THAT HOOVER AND GREEN IN
MY MIND IS A SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDING IN THAT IS MEAN I WILL
JUST I WILL JUST SAY THAT IS ME
BUT I FEEL LIKE THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT WE NEED.
>> YOU ARE HAPPY IT'S NOT HERE
I'M HAPPY IT'S NOT HERE.
I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THERE IS
NO DEPICTION IN THOSE PICTURES
OF WHAT WE MEAN BY SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDING AND THIS IS
WHAT I DID MY RESEARCH LAST
WEEK TO SAY LIKE HERE ARE
DIFFERENT BUT MAYBE THEY'RE ALL
SMALL IN EVERYBODY'S MIND.
BUT I FEEL LIKE IF WE'RE
SINGING SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS ARE IN LOW DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL THINKING ABOUT WHAT
THE I'M NOT SAYING THEY ARE OR
THE FOOTPRINT OF THAT IS.
RIGHT.
BUT THAT'S WHERE YOU MAKE AN
ARGUMENT LAST WEEK ABOUT THE
GROUND FLOOR BECAUSE IT'S
REALLY THE GROUND FLOOR THAT
MATTERS MOST TO MOST PEOPLE.
IT'S SORT OF WHAT FEELS
CONVERSA TO THEM AS THEY WALK
PAST IT AND I THINK IT'S ON
THAT SAID THAT WE HAVE THE
THREE STOREY APARTMENT ONE.
SO I THINK GREENAN WHOEVER
DOESN'T FIT BECAUSE IT WOULD BE
OVER THE HEIGHT LIMIT.
SO I DON'T THINK WE HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT IT IN TERMS
OF HEIGHT BUT IF YOU LOOK AT
THE MADISON APARTMENT THAT YOU
TOOK A PHOTO OF , IT IS THREE
STORIES BUT IT'S UPSCALE
BECAUSE IT GOES SO FAR BACK TO
THAT.
YEAH.
AND IT'S A EL YOU CAN PRESENT
IN THE SAME WAY THAT A HOOVER
AND GREEN COULD BECAUSE IT'S
ALMOST NEAR A CORNER SO BUT I
WOULD SAY THAT IS VERY
COMFORTABLE AND LOW RISE.
I WOULD HAVE NO OBJECTION
WHATSOEVER TO THE MADISON BEING
THERE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE
THAT'S WHERE IT IS TODAY.
SORRY, I JUST THIS IS WHY WE
NEED TWO MEETINGS FOR THE
SECOND DRAFT.
>> WE WOULD LIKE TO GET THAT
CONVERSATION SO WE HAVE LIKE
BACKSLID AND WE'RE REHASHING
THE LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
CONVERSATION.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE I DON'T
THINK I DON'T FEEL LIKE I JUST
WE WERE ASKING WHAT ARE ARE
THERE ANY OTHER HOW ABOUT THAT?
SO WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
TO GET GRAPHIC AND FIND A
BETTER IMAGE THAT DURING THE
CONVERSATION WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT OTHER IMAGES AND THE
REASON I'M ASKING THIS IS I
THINK THIS WILL BE HELPFUL TO
THE PRIOR POINT TO HELP
ARTICULATE WHAT WE MEAN BY
STAND FORM STANDARDS AND HELP
TO COMMUNICATE THAT SO THAT'S
WHY I THAT WAS THE QUESTION I
YEAH I WAS I WASN'T SAYING I
WASN'T I MIGHT HAVE BEEN
LOOKING AT YOU BUT I WASN'T
COMING AT YOU.
I IT WAS DIRECTLY I JUST WANTED
TO POINT OUT THAT THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT CONVERSATION AND ALSO
WHY THINGS TAKE MORE TIME THAN
WE THINK WE'RE GOING TO BECAUSE
WE HAVE NOT YET BEGUN TALKING
ABOUT TRANSITION YET.
>> YEAH, BUT I THINK WHAT IT
MIGHT TAKE AWAY IS THIS I THINK
SMALL SHOULD BE ON HERE AND I
WOULD AGREE HOOVEN GREEN IS NOT
A SMALL PART.
IT'S NOT IT IS A FULL CITY
BLOCK.
YEAH.
I THINK THAT THE BUILDINGS IN
COMMISSIONER MILLS ARE MUCH
MORE APPROPRIATE.
I AGREE AND THEY RANGE THE
INTERESTING YOU KNOW THERE'S A
TON OF THEM AND WE'VE GOT AN
EXAMPLE AND AS ANOTHER SO THEY
ARE CONVEYING A SENSE OF SKILL
AND FIT AND GENTLE CONVERSE AND
SEE WHAT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT DOESN'T GET LOST AND I
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
ABOUT THE MISSING MIDDLE BUT
THAT'S KIND OF DESCRIBING TYPE
MORE THAN IT IS THESE QUESTIONS
ABOUT FORMING FIT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND SO HOW ARE WE GOING TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT CONCEPT ISN'T
COMPLETELY JETTISONED?
I JUST DON'T I DON'T THINK WE
CAN COME TO AN AGREEMENT ON
WHAT IT MEANS AND THEREFORE I
DON'T THINK WE SHOULD USE IT
BECAUSE YOUR DEFINITION
OF GENERAL WON'T MEET MY
DEFINITION OF GENTLE AND SO
BECAUSE I THINK HAVING A BLOCK
A FOUR BLOCK THE BLOCK THAT I'M
ON ON STYLE CHURCH FULL OF TOWN
HOUSES WOULD BE FINE FOR ME
THREE STOREY TOWNHOUSES BECAUSE
THEY'RE LIKE THE ROW HOUSES
THAT I GREW UP WITH IN DC THAT
WAS A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WAS A
RESIDENT THAT MADE VERY CLEAR
THAT THERE ARE A LOT OF FOLKS
WE'VE BUY FROM WHO YOU WOULD
SAY THAT'S NOT GENTLE.
SO I JUST DON'T THINK WE CAN
GET TO AGREEMENT ON GENERAL AND
BECAUSE WE CAN BUT IF WE SHOULD
USE JAROCIN COMPLETELY THEN
WE'RE AGREEING THAT WE'RE NOT
GOING TO WORRY ABOUT IT ANYMORE
.
>> THAT'S MY CONCERN.
THAT DOES SOUND LIKE YOUR
CONCERN.
>> I WOULD AGREE.
I'M NOT THINKING I DON'T THINK
I'M ALONE IN PUTTING THAT
CONCERN ON THE TABLE.
>> I MEAN THAT'S WHY WE CAN DO
THE STRAW POLLS WHEN WE NEED TO
GIVE THE STAFF THE FEEDBACK THE
STRAW POLL ABOUT WHETHER TO USE
THE TERM GENTILE.
I'M NOT PROPOSING THAT.
I'M JUST SAYING IF IF WE NEED
TO GO IN THAT DIRECTION WE HAVE
TOOLS TO HELP US FIGURE OUT
WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO USE IT
OR NOT.
I LET ME CLARIFY.
I'M NOT SO I MEAN THIS IS A
QUESTION WE KEEP COMING BACK TO
WHEN ARE WE GOING TO JUST SIT
DOWN AND REALLY NEUTRAL THROUGH
THIS DIFFICULT QUESTION OF HOW
DO HOW TO FIGURE OUT WHAT FITS
IN DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS AND
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO THAT
AT SOME POINT, RIGHT?
IT'S EITHER GOING TO BE THROUGH
THE PLAN OR THROUGH THE ZONING
CODE .
>> I DON'T THINK IN THE PLAN WE
CAN GET TO KNOW EVERY SINGLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND HOW WE'RE
GOING TO REGULATE IT.
BUT I THINK THERE'S MORE LIKE
WORDING THAT WOULD CLARIFY THAT
THAT'S IF THAT'S WHAT YOU ALL
WANT TO DO.
>> MY CONCERN IS THAT WE NOT
WRITE THE PLAN IN SUCH A WAY
THAT WHEN WE GET TO THE ZONING
CODE WE SAY OH GOSH, THAT'S NOT
PART OF WHAT WE NEED TO DO IN
THE ZONING CODE BECAUSE WE
DIDN'T BRING IT UP IN THE PLAN
AND I'M AFRAID THAT NOT
SPEAKING TO DESIGNING FROM
THESE CODES SO THAT NEW
DEVELOPMENTS FIT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD PICK YOUR WORD
THEY'RE CONVERSANT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THEY'RE NOT OVERLY
DISRUPTIVE.
SO I THINK YOU AND I HAVE
DIFFERENT GOALS I'M TRYING TO
REMOVE THE EXISTING HOUSING
SEGREGATION THAT EXISTS BECAUSE
IT'S EXCLUSIONARY AND WHEN I
HEAR WE ARE TRYING TO BUILD
HOUSING THAT FITS THE EXISTING
HOUSING SEGREGATION
, I HEAR
THAT IT IS PERPETUATING THAT
BECAUSE THIS IS A FIFTY YEAR
LOOK THIS IS NOT A FIVE NOT
EVEN A TEN.
NOT EVEN A TWENTY FIVE.
THIS IS A FIFTY YEAR LOOK SO I
THINK ONE OF OUR COMMENTERS ONE
OF THE VERY FIRST COME ON
COMMENTER SAID LET'S NOT
RESTRICT THINGS TODAY SO THAT
WE HAVE THE ABILITY FOR
TOMORROW TO HAVE THEIR OWN
CONVERSATIONS AND SO I THINK WE
NEED TO HAVE A SPAN OF VIEW.
I THINK WE ARE RESTRICTING IT
ALREADY COUNCIL IS GIVEN
DIRECTION TO PLANNING.
PLANNING HAS ACCEPTED IT FOR A
LIMIT.
NOW WE'RE IN THE CONVERSATION
ABOUT NOT RESTRICTING THE
NUMBER OF HOMES BECAUSE
OTHERWISE WE GET INTO THESE
VERY WEIRD CONFIGURATIONS YOU
KNOW, ONE BEDROOM, ONE UNIT BUT
SIX BEDROOM KIND OF THING.
>> I WASN'T SUGGESTING WE GO
THERE.
>> THAT'S HOW IT WORKS AND SO
SO SO WHEN I HEAR GENTIL WHAT
I'M HEARING AND THIS IS THIS IS
BECAUSE OF MY SOCIAL LOCATION
WHICH I THINK IS VERY
DIFFERENT.
IT'S A NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER
PROTECTOR PROTECT PROPERTY
VALUES, MAINTAIN HARMONIOUS
COMMUNITIES, SUPPORT
NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOLS.
THESE ARE THIS IS THE LEXICON
OF EXCLUSION AND SO LET'S THE
ONE EXTREME AND I GET TOTALLY
YOUR CONCERN ABOUT TRYING TO
UNDO FIX PATTERNS WHAT I SEE
OUT IS THE OTHER EXTREME I'M
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHERE IS
THE MIDDLE WAS THE COMPROMISE.
YEAH, THERE IS NO COMPROMISE
WITH FOLKS WHO DON'T WANT
ANYTHING.
THAT'S THE PROBLEM WE HAVE TO
THE SUGGESTIONS BUT NOT GET
THAT.
LET ME BE CLEAR I'M NOT
KNUCKLING UNDER TO FOLKS WHO
DON'T WANT ANYTHING TO CHANGE.
I'M NOT GOING THERE.
BUT I THINK THAT'S ALSO KIND
OF RECOGNIZED THE IDEA
OF TRANSITION OVER TIME AND I'M
HEARTENED BY THE FOLKS I'VE
TALKED TO SAID YEAH, I'VE SEEN
DEVELOPMENTS, I'VE SEEN TRIPLEX
COME TO MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THEY'RE FINE.
WHAT IS IT ABOUT THEM THAT HAVE
THERE'S STILL WHERE THEY ARE.
THEY'RE IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY'VE GOT A TRIPLEX.
DOESN'T BOTHER THEM.
WAS THAT JUST HAPPENSTANCE OR
IS THERE SOME WAY THAT WE CAN
NAVIGATE THAT AND GIVE SOME
ASSURANCE THAT WE'RE NOT GOING
TO BUILD A FIVE STORY BUILDING
TO FOUR FEET FROM YOUR LINE,
WHICH IS WHAT EVERYBODY'S BEEN?
>> WE ARE WE ALREADY PROVIDED
INSURANCE.
>> WE'VE LIMITED IT TO THREE
STORIES WE TALK ABOUT USING
SETBACKS AND DIMENSIONAL
REGULATIONS AND WHAT THE I MEAN
WE'VE THE ONE THING WE'VE
CLEARLY DONE IS LIMITED THE
RIGHT AND WE'RE VERY VAGUELY
SAYING WE'RE GOING TO USE
FOREIGN BASED STANDARDS.
>> AND WHAT I'M ASKING IS TO
WHAT PURPOSE WHAT I'M HEARING
WHAT WHAT THEY SAY IS WE'RE
REALLY NOT BUT THE BUILDING
TYPES ARE COTTAGE PARTS,
TOWNHOUSES, SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
,THREE DWELLING UNITS,
DUPLEXES, TRIPLEX COMPLEXES.
NONE OF THAT IS I THINK WE'RE
ACTUALLY DOING A LOT TO
COMMUNICATE THE INTENT.
>> I ALSO JUST I ALSO FEEL LIKE
ZONING IS WHERE WE ACTUALLY
DEBATE ALL OF THIS STUFF IN THE
UDC.
IT'S NOT IN THE COMPANY AND
NONE OF THIS STOPS THE SINGLE
FAMILY DEVELOPMENT OR EXCUSE ME
A SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED FROM
DOING A LOT COMBINATION AND
BUILDING A BIG FOOT THERE.
>> THERE ARE FRICTIONS IN OUR
CODE THE NUMBER OF RELATED
PEOPLE WHO CAN LIVE TOGETHER.
SO I I WAS A TRIGGER WITH YOU
THIS PAST WEEK.
I SAT NEXT TO A NEIGHBOR WHO
WAS LIKE I'M AFRAID THAT WAS
HIS PHRASE.
I SAID WHAT ARE YOU AFRAID OF ?
HE'S LIKE I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO BE BUILT NEXT DOOR.
AND I WAS LIKE YOU CURRENTLY
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO BE
BUILT NEXT DOOR.
AND HE IS LIKE WELL IT'LL BE A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
I WAS LIKE ABOUT THIRTY FOUR
PEOPLE COULD MOVE IN AS LONG AS
THE BUILDING CODE PERMITTED IT.
THERE'S NO RESTRICTION AND HE'S
LIKE A WORD THEY PARK AND I GO
YOU CAN'T PARK ON MILLER TODAY
HE'S LIKE RIGHT.
AND I WAS LIKE IT'S SO SO THAT
THAT'S WHAT I AM WORKING
THROUGH IS WE HAVE CODE THAT
PERMITS ANYTHING AS LONG AS
IT'S A SINGLE FAMILY HOME UP TO
WHAT THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET BEFORE THEY HAVE TO TALK
TO YOU AND YOU CAN CLEAR CUT
ALL THE TREES BECAUSE IT'S IN
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT AND NOW
WE'RE BEING MORE RESTRICTIVE IN
SEX WITH WHAT IS COMING THAT'S
SUPPOSED TO DENSIFY AND I THINK
IT'S REVERSED I AND IN SOME
WAYS I APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS
FROM COMMISSIONER MILLS EARLY
ON IN THIS CONVERSATION THAT
SOME OF THESE DECISIONS HAVE
UNINTENDED BUT ALSO PERVERSE
OUTCOMES.
SO I I THINK I HEAR YOU I DON'T
HAVE AN ANSWER FOR YOU OTHER
THAN TO SAY I DON'T AGREE WITH
YOU BUT THAT'S IT.
>> YEAH.
THOUGH I DON'T THINK I MEAN I
THINK IT'S OK TO SAY I MEAN THE
THING ABOUT GENTIL IS THAT WE
WOULD HAVE TO DEFINE IT RIGHT.
WE HAD A WOMAN WHO CAME IN AND
SAID, YOU KNOW, DEFINE GENTIL
DEFINE THERE WERE SEVERAL
THINGS I WROTE THEM DOWN.
>> I THINK WE NOTICED THEM THAT
NIGHT AND AND I DON'T KNOW HOW
WE WOULD DEFINE GENTIL BUT ONE
OF THE THINGS I ACTUALLY THINK
THIS PLAN DEFINES WHICH I DO
LIKE IS THE MIDDLE.
I MEAN FUNNY ENOUGH THERE'S SO
MANY CONCEPTS THAT ARE IN THE
PLAN THAT DIDN'T REALLY GET
DEFINED AND THE WAY I HAVE BEEN
THINKING ABOUT HOW TO CONVEY
WHAT'S GOING ON LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL IS THAT IT
ENVISIONS THESE LOW SCALE
MULTIFAMILY MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING FORMS TO COEXIST WITH
DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S YOU AND
THAT IT MAKES IT LEGAL AGAIN TO
BUILD THESE ONCE COMMON MISSING
MIDDLE HOUSING FORMS.
I MEAN THESE WERE COMMON IN ANN
ARBOR SO WE'RE ACTUALLY
REACHING BACK TO A PAST THAT
WAS CERTAINLY MORE ECONOMICALLY
DIVERSE BY VIRTUE BY VIRTUE
OF ITS HOUSING PATTERNS AND SO
AND BUT YOU KNOW, 1957 AND THEN
THE 1980S CHANGED ALL THAT.
SO WE'RE SO DIVISION EVERYBODY
HAS FOR THE KIND OF INCREASED
DENSITY THAT COULD GO INTO ANY
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL HOUSE
WOULD BE A DUPLEX TRIPLEX
COMPLEX TOWNHOUSE OR CORDAGE
COTTAGE.
>> IT WAS CERTAINLY IT WOULD
DEPEND ON THE SIZE OF THE
PARCEL AND WHAT WHATEVER WE SAY
,WHATEVER WE DO WITH FORM
STANDARDS THAT WILL WITHOUT
REFERENCING PARCELS AFFECT HOW
MUCH AREA YOU CAN HAVE FOR YOUR
THING.
I MEAN COLLEGE COURTS DON'T FIT
I MEAN THEY FIT ON A VERY
PARTICULAR KIND OF LOT ROW
HOUSES COULD BE VERY CONSISTENT
WITH THE RHYTHM OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE ONE
STANDARD WE'VE CLEARLY
ESTABLISHED IS NOT HIGHER THAN
THREE STOREYS.
RIGHT.
WHAT ARE THE OTHER STANDARDS?
WELL, WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO
THAT IN THE PLAN.
I MEAN WE'VE WE'VE GIVEN WE'LL
GIVE EXAMPLES OF WHAT FORM
BASED STANDARDS YOU KNOW, WHAT
TOOLS WE HAVE FOREIGN BASED
STANDARDS.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT WE WANT
TO TIE THE HANDS OF THE ZONING
TO COME OR IMPOSE A SORT
OF UNIFORMITY BECAUSE WE'RE
DEALING WITH ONE LANDY'S
CATEGORY.
>> WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
DIFFERENT ZARGHAMI THIS WAY.
>> HOW WILL WE DESCRIBE THE
PURPOSE OF THE FORM BASED
STANDARD?
THIS IS TO BRING BACK MISSING
MIDDLE HOUSING WHICH WAS ONCE
COMMON IN A MORE ECONOMICALLY
DIVERSE TIME IN THIS HORRIBLY
NOW I'VE SEEN THAT BEING A
LITTLE BIT I'M KIND DEVIL'S
ADVOCATE HERE SO THAT DOESN'T
DO IT FOR YOU BECAUSE YOU JUST
THE PURPOSE OF THE MIDDLEMISS
IN HOUSING IS TO BRING BACK
FORMS THAT AREN'T HERE NOW THE
MIDDLE MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING
IS THE FORMS THAT AREN'T HERE
BUT WERE ONCE COMMON AND RIGHT.
>> BUT NOW WE'RE SAYING BUT
DON'T WORRY BECAUSE WE'RE GOING
TO ADOPT FORM BASED STANDARDS
FOR WHAT PURPOSE TO MINIMIZE
THE DISRUPTION, THE STUFF
THAT'S GOING INTO THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
>> I THINK LIKE LIKE THE HEIGHT
LIMIT THE FORM THESE STANDARDS
WILL BE USED TO TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE OF DEVELOPMENT
AND WE HAVE NOT YET HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION AND WE WILL HAVE
THAT CONVERSATION AND WE WILL
HAVE TO DECIDE IF A TYPICAL
SINGLE FAMILY HOME IS FIFTY IS
FORTY FEET.
IT'S THE SIDE WITH DO YOU WANT
SOMETHING THAT SIZE BIGGER
SMALLER I WAS TRYING TO GET
INTO THE PLAN IS A SIGNAL THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION.
SO IT'S RIGHT THERE IN THE
SENTENCE THAT WE WANT TO READ
OUT LOUD WHICH IS FURTHER
ANALYSIS IS NEEDED TO IDENTIFY
ADDITIONAL MEASURES FOR
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE
WHICH WILL BE EXPLORED DURING
THE RESULTS.
AND SO THAT'S THE PURPOSE
OF THE FORMERLY STANDARD.
YET I'M OK WITH THE BUILDING
HOUSING THE MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING THAT'S RESONATES WITH
ME PROBABLY DANIELLE DOESN'T
LIKE THIS.
>> WE SAY PRESERVING
NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE.
YOU PROBABLY TAKE ISSUE WITH
THAT BUT I THINK WE DO SAY IN
HERE PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD
SCALE WHICH FEELS LIKE WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IN TERMS
OF FLATS.
>> YEAH.
SO MAYBE THAT'S WHAT I'M
LOOKING FOR BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
I WANT TO MAKE SURE IS THAT WE
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION AND I
COULD VERY WELL END UP AGREEING
WITH MR. WALSH ON WHAT THOSE
STANDARDS WOULD BE BECAUSE I I
TOTALLY GET HIS CONCERNS AND I
DON'T WANT THEM TO CHOPPED OFF
AT THE KNEES NOW BECAUSE WE
DIDN'T INCLUDE THAT IN THE PLAN
.
SO MAYBE I'M PUSHING THE POINT
THAT YOU ALREADY SETTLED SOME
TIME AGO WHEN YOU POINTED OUT
THAT SENTENCE IS STILL THERE.
>> YOU YOUR HAND I WAS JUST
GOING TO SUGGEST THAT THE
LANGUAGE IN THE PLAN THAT SAYS
THAT WE WILL DO THAT WORK MAYBE
PART OF THIS IS LINKING IT IN
SOME WAY TO THE CORRECT
BUILDING TYPES.
I WOULD JUST SAY THAT HAVING
THIS PLAN THIS IS WE'RE GOING
TO DO THAT WORK.
HERE'S EXAMPLES OF WHAT WE WANT
TO ACCOMPLISH I THINK WOULD BE
A GREAT JUMPING OFF POINT FOR
US TO START DOING THE ZONING
WORK TO FIGURE OUT WITH DEEPER
DIVES WHAT IS IT ABOUT THESE
EXAMPLES IN EACH ONE OF THOSE
WE'RE PROBABLY GOING TO BE
DOING MORE RESEARCH ABOUT
DIFFERENT VERSIONS OF DUPLEXES
ARE THE ONES WE LIKE WERE THE
ONES WE DON'T
LIKE WATER
VERSIONS OF STACK FLATS THAT WE
LIKE AND DON'T LIKE WHAT OUR
SMALL APARTMENTS THAT WE LIKE
AND WE DON'T LIKE.
SO I WOULD JUST SAY THAT AS
MICHELLE POINTED OUT BEFORE I
DON'T SUGGEST WE ARE GOING TO
BE ABLE TO WE'RE NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO SATISFY EVERYBODY
WITH A LEVEL OF SPECIFICITY
THAT WE WILL GET WHERE THEY
WOULD WANT US TO GET.
BUT I THINK WE CAN GET TO A
LEVEL OF SPECIFICITY THAT WE WE
THINK ZONING IS THE APPROPRIATE
PLACE TO DO THAT AND WE'RE
SIGNALING VERY CLEARLY HERE
THESE ARE THE TYPES OF PRODUCTS
THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE STEERING
TOWARDS AND THAT'S THE PLACE AS
TO HOW WE PUT TOGETHER THE
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK WHETHER
IT'S ONE DISTRICT OR THIRTY
FOUR DISTRICTS.
WHAT GET THOSE THINGS AND HOW
IT WILL BE REALIZED.
>> I THINK TO POINT I'M
THINKING ABOUT CAN I SAY HE WAS
JOKING PLEASE.
I'M THINKING ABOUT ALL THE
COMMENTS WE KEEP GETTING OVER
AND OVER AGAIN ABOUT ONE SIZE
PLAN DOESN'T FIT ALL ONE SIZE
DOESN'T FIT ALL IN WHAT IT'S
USUALLY VOICED IN THE CONTEXT
OF MY NEIGHBOR YOU SHOULD SET
ASIDE MY NEIGHBORHOOD OR THAT'S
WHAT I'M HEARING IS OK, I KNOW
I GET THAT AND I'M TOTALLY
HEARING IT BUT I THINK THAT
PEOPLE DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE LAND
USE CATEGORIES AND ZONING
DISTRICT IN THIS PLAN HAS THREE
NOW LAND USE CATEGORIES AND WE
DON'T KNOW HOW MANY ZONING
DISTRICTS IT WILL TAKE TO
REALIZE THEM.
CORRECT WILL BE FEWER THAN WE
USED TO HAVE BUT IT'S NOT GOING
TO BE THREE BECAUSE THAT WOULD
BE YEAH I THINK PEOPLE ARE
RESPONDING TO THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE ONE RESIDENTIAL FUTURE AND
LAND USE DISTRICT AND SO I
THINK THAT ALL REGULATIONS ARE
GOING TO BE EXACTLY THE SAME
ACROSS THE BOARD AND THAT IS
NOT TRUE.
>> THAT'S WHAT I DO NOT WANT TO
I DON'T WANT TO PUT OUT THERE
THAT WE CAN GUARANTEE THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE MANY
RESIDENTIAL I AGREE ZONING
DISTRICTS.
>> I DON'T EVEN THINK I'M
SAYING THERE'S GOING TO BE NONE
BUT I JUST THINK WE'RE NOT
GOING TO BE CHENIN BUT I DON'T
THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE ONE
AND I'VE FEEL LIKE WE'VE BEEN
CLEAR ABOUT THAT YOU KNOW I
KNOW BUT I JUST I REALLY MAKE
SURE WE DON'T SET UNREASONABLE
EXPECTATIONS IN THE PUBLIC
ABOUT CUSTOMIZED ZONING
DISTRICTS FOR OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO BE THAT
EITHER.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE ONE ZONE
AND IT'S NOT NECESSARILY GOING
TO BE THAT EVERY SINGLE
NEIGHBORHOOD HAS THEIR YOU
KNOW, IT'S CUSTOMIZED ZONING.
IT THAT'S HOW IT IS NOW EITHER.
>> AND I'M TRYING TO POINT OUT
I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO DO
THAT IF IN FACT WE'RE
SUCCESSFUL IN THE ZONING FORM
STANDARDS THAT MAKE SURE THAT
NO MATTER WHAT DISTRICT YOU'RE
IN IT'S NOT A ONE SIZE FITS
ALL.
THIS STANDARD BUILDING IS GOING
TO GO EVERYWHERE.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE BUILDINGS
WITH STRONG PROPERTY STANDARDS
THAT FIT THE CONTEXT OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I THINK THE SENTENCE WE READ
COVERS.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S MY RESPONSE TO FOLKS
WHO ARE SAYING IT'S NOT A IT'S
NOT A ONE SIZE FITS PLAN, IT'S
CONTEXT DEPENDENT BUT THAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN THROUGH THE
ZONING CODE .
CORRECT PRIMARILY THROUGH THE
FORM STANDARDS NOT BY THE
PROLIFERATION OF DISTRICTS SO
THAT EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD GETS
ITS OWN ZONING DISTRICT.
>> I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT THAT.
I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT A
PROLIFERATION OF DISTRICTS BUT
I JUST AM POINTING OUT THAT
WHAT IS THERE THEIR
MISUNDERSTANDING IS THEY'RE
HERE MID RISE RESIDENTIAL AND
THEY THINK THAT'S A ZONING
DISTRICT.
>> SORRY I ALWAYS DO THAT WITH
YOUR LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL SORRY
.
I MEAN THAT'S ONE ZONING
DISTRICT, ONE ZONING DISTRICT
THAT'S THAT'S UNDERSTANDABLE
AND YEAH I COMPLETELY
UNDERSTAND THAT BUT DON'T
MISUNDERSTANDING COMES FROM
CONVERSATIONS.
THERE WERE SOME I MEAN SOME
COMMISSIONERS I THINK IT WAS
PRIOR TO THAT.
>> YES I THINK SO.
I DON'T WE SHOULD INDICATE THAT
WE HAVE TO DO MORE THAN TWO
THAT'S LIKE I THINK THAT'S OUR
MINIMUM AND THE I WOULD ARGUE
IT'S OUR MAXIMUM BUT THAT'S
CONVERSATION WE WILL HAVE AT
THE TABLE.
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE ALSO
THAT WE'RE GIVING PRACTICAL
FEEDBACK ESPECIALLY CLEARER AND
CLEARER IF YOU ARE READY TO
MOVE ON TO I FEEL TO YOU I'M
JUST GOING TO THROW IN ONE
LITTLE WRENCH.
THANKS.
IT'S A THE WHERE WHERE MY
HEAD'S THAT I'VE GOT THAT SENSE
NOW LIKE I DON'T KNOW 30 TIMES
AT THIS POINT I'M GOING TO IT'S
THAT LAST SENTENCE ABOUT
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE
AND FOR ME IT IS ABOUT
INCREASED ABILITY OF LIKE THE
IDEA OF PRESERVATION INDUCES
THIS CONCEPT OF LIKE
PROTECTIONISM LIKE I'M IN MY
HEAD LIKE THIS CONCEPT OF THERE
SHOULD BE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF PRODUCT TYPES LIKE WHETHER
IT'S A TWELVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT OR SIX HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
OR A THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
LIKE YOU SHOULD HAVE THE OPTION
IN DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS TO
KIND OF CHOOSE THE HOUSING TYPE
THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO BE IN
THE FUTURE.
>> AND SO THIS IDEA OF THAT YOU
KNOW AND I'M TRYING TO
ABSOLUTELY BALANCE THE NEEDS
OF KIND OF WHAT I'M HEARING
RIGHT.
AND IT REALLY KIND
OF INCORPORATE THAT THAT SENSE
RIGHT THERE.
UM, I THINK IT IS PIVOTAL BUT I
AM KIND OF WORRIED ABOUT THE
EXACT WORDING OF THAT SAYING
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT IT IS
ABOUT IS ABOUT PRESERVING
LEGIBILITY I THINK IS REALLY
THE WORD THE OPERATING WORD
OF PRESERVATION IS A LITTLE
CONCERNING TO ME BECAUSE THAT'S
LIKE HISTORIC HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
IT'S PRESERVING IS A
PROBLEMATIC WORD BECAUSE NO.
>> WHAT ABOUT RESPECTING I WELL
I LIKE I THINK THE IDEA NEEDS
TO BE IMPROVED LEGIBILITY.
RIGHT?
LIKE WE WANT I DON'T KNOW I
GUESS IMPROVEMENT IS ALREADY
KIND OF LIKE A JUDGMENT OR
SUBJECTIVE KIND OF CASE.
>> BUT I THIS SENSE WHILE I
THINK IT IS NECESSARY I REALLY
LIKE THE CONCEPT IT IS
NECESSARY FOR THE PURPOSE
OF LIKE JUST WHAT WE HAVE HEARD
.
I DON'T THINK IT'S CORRECT IN
THE RIGHT IN THE CURRENT STATE
THAT IN BECAUSE AGAIN THE IDEA
SHOULD BE THAT DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOODS WANT TO LIVE IN
BIRNBACH I USED TO WALK HOME
FROM TAP IN MIDDLE SCHOOL.
I WAS LIKE OH WOW ON MY HANDS
IF YOU'RE NOT GOING TO LIVE
THERE I LIVE IN THE ATTACHED
TOWNHOUSE ACTUALLY I LOVE THE
PLACE LIKE I KNOW MY NEIGHBORS
VERY WELL.
I AGREE WITH YOU THAT THE IS
THE PEOPLE THAT LIVE IT THAT'S
WHAT ACTUALLY MAKES UP THE
FABRIC OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO LIKE TO ME IT'S LIKE THOSE
KINDS OF OPTIONS SHOULD BE
AVAILABLE IN DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOODS.
RIGHT.
LIKE THE DIFFERENT PRICE POINTS
CETERA AND SO LIKE THE IDEA
OF THE PRESERVATION OF THE
CONTINUITY THAT DOES SEEM
OPERATIVELY SLIGHTLY CONCERNING
FROM THAT STANDPOINT.
BUT WITH THAT BEING SAID, WHAT
WE DON'T WANT IS THE DETRACTION
OF LIKE ARCHITECTURAL DIVIDEND
OR VALUE THAT'S
CREATED LEGIBILITY OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS YOU WALK PAST
THAT LIKE IT NEEDS TO MAKE
SENSE LIKE WELL WE DON'T WANT
IS LIKE A BLOCK WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT THE CONCEPT OF GENTIL
YOU'RE RIGHT.
THAT MEANS DIFFERENT TO
DIFFERENT PEOPLE LIKE ABRUPT
VIOLENT TRANSITIONS.
RIGHT.
I'M TRYING TO USE KIND OF THE
OPPOSITE OF WHAT I WOULD
CONSIDER TO BE GENTLE.
>> I THINK I'M TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT LIKE WHAT'S THE RIGHT WAY
TO WORD THIS IN A WAY THAT IS
WHETHER IT'S RESPECT I DON'T
KNOW.
IS IT JUST SOMETHING ALONG THE
LINES THAT FURTHER ANALYSIS THE
LINES THAT FURTHER ANALYSIS IS
NEEDED TO IDENTIFY ADDITIONAL
MEASURES TO ENSURE THAT NEW
DEVELOPMENT IS REALIZED IN THE
EXAMPLES GAEL'S HERE.
>> YEAH, WELL YEAH.
I MEAN WE ARE PRESERVING SCALE
LIKE WE'RE CAPPING THE HEIGHTS
WE'RE WE'RE CONSIDERING SCALING
I MEAN WELL WHY DON'T WE JUST
RECOGNIZE LIKE I THINK I'M
HEARING A LOT OF AGREEMENT THAT
PRESERVING NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE
IS A LITTLE BIT TOO
PROTECTIONIST PERHAPS SO WHY
DON'T WE JUST TRY AND CRAFT
SOME LANGUAGE THAT IS A LITTLE
BIT MORE GENERAL OR OK BECAUSE
IT SHOULD BE EXPLORED DURING
THE ARIZONA PROCESS.
RIGHT.
AND AGAIN THERE IS VALUE TO
LEGIBILITY.
THERE IS VALUE TO BUT ALSO
TRULY LEGIBILITY.
I DON'T IT'S NOT A WORD THAT
WILL GET AT ALL THAT RESONATE
WITH ME AND I THINK I THINK
IT'S WORTH LISTENING TO OUR
PLAYING DIRTY TERMS.
IT'S VERY DESIGN FOCUS WORD IF
YOU CAN GIVE US ANOTHER SORT
OF LIKE A SYNONYM.
>> YEAH, WELL LET'S LET YOU ALL
DO IT ON THE GENTLE DENSITY
BEFORE WE MOVE ON TO
TRANSITION.
I'M OK WITH NOT USING THE WORDS
UNTIL I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT JUST ON PAGE FIFTY THREE
WHILE WE'RE AT IT THEN BUT
THAT'S ONLY BECAUSE YOU ASKED
MICHELLE HOW THEY TRULY WANT TO
MOVE FORWARD.
YEAH I WANT TO MOVE FORWARD TO
THE CAN WE ALSO HAVE
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER FROM
PAGE ONE TO MAKE SURE WE SHOULD
GET RID OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER EVERYWHERE IT EXISTS
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT IS SUCH A
HOT PIZZA A AND IT'S THE ONLY
PLACE IN THE WHOLE PLANET SHOWS
UP.
SO I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
ONE PLANNER SAY THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT MASS AND SCALE.
WE'RE NOT USING IT THAT WAY
THAT OTHER PEOPLE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD MASS AND SCALE.
YEAH OK.
SO I USE OR SOMETHING ELSE THE
OLD SAYING GOES DISTRICT I MEAN
I'VE CHARACTER GETS US INTO
THESE CONVERSATIONS THAT ARE
NOT PRODUCTIVE PAGE ONE OH
TRANSITION KIND OF TAKE A
SWING.
OH SURE YOU TAKE YOU SWING
THESE DOWN PLEASE DO SO I I
SUBMITTED THE COMMENT ON THIS
AND I'LL TRY TO TRACK IT
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S IT'S
RELEVANT TO THE MILLER PUSHBACK
WE'RE GETTING SO I THINK NOR
SHOULD STATE TRANSITION
PROVIDED THAT WE THERE'S I
GUESS TWO CHANGES THAT I WANT
TO MAKE TO THIS IS SORRY WHICH
PAGE WE ARE AND MAKE SURE I'M
TAKING THIS RIGHT ON ONE TWO
ONE ONE TIME.
>> YEP.
SO ONE TEN TALKS ABOUT IT'S GOT
THEM I THINK IT SAYS IS A MID
RISE AND HERE THAT ARE GOING
THE TABLE NO IT'S HERE I
THOUGHT IT MIGHT HAVE JUST BEEN
ON THE TABLE IT ON THE TABLE
YOU'RE RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT SO IT'S MORE ON THE
TABLE THAN IT IS HERE.
IT'S RELEVANT TO THE DISCUSSION
HERE I THINK I THINK WE WANT TO
SAY A LOAD OF HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS BUT WE WANT TO SAY
DEPENDING ON PROXIMITY TO
RESIDENTIAL TO NEARBY
RESIDENTIAL HOMES
.
THE REASON I'M SAYING THAT IS
IF TRANSITION BACKS THERE'S NO
REASON TO THERE'S NO REASON TO
LIMIT OF IT BACK TO THE HUB IN
SOME OF THESE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS DUE BACK AT THE HUB
DISTRICTS ARE RIGHT ALONG WITH
SOME OF THESE TRANSITION
THE MILITARY FOR EXAMPLE, COMES
DISTRICTS ARE RIGHT ALONG WITH
FROM THE MINE WHERE PEOPLE ARE
THE MILITARY FOR EXAMPLE, COMES
SAYING THAT'S A RESIDENTIAL
FROM THE MINE WHERE PEOPLE ARE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SAYING THAT'S A RESIDENTIAL
THAT'S NOT A MAJOR ARTERY.
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE'S NOT A BUS LINE OUT
THAT'S NOT A MAJOR ARTERY.
OF THERE MAKING ALL THESE
THERE'S NOT A BUS LINE OUT
ARGUMENTS AND THERE'S MERIT IN
OF THERE MAKING ALL THESE
THAT IF WE'RE ALREADY SAYING IN
ARGUMENTS AND THERE'S MERIT IN
HERE THAT THIS DISTRICT SELF
THAT IF WE'RE ALREADY SAYING IN
REGULATES WHEN ADJACENT TO
HERE THAT THIS DISTRICT SELF
ESTABLISH RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
REGULATES WHEN ADJACENT TO
AND WE ARE BACKING IT UP IN THE
ESTABLISH RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
HUB AND HUB IS HIGH RISE
AND WE ARE BACKING IT UP IN THE
THERE'S IT SHOULD TAPER DOWN
HUB AND HUB IS HIGH RISE
FROM THAT APPROPRIATELY TO
THERE'S IT SHOULD TAPER DOWN
RESIDENTIAL AND I THINK IT CAN
FROM THAT APPROPRIATELY TO
WITHOUT CHANGING THE CHARACTER
RESIDENTIAL AND I THINK IT CAN
OF THE DISTRICT.
WITHOUT CHANGING THE CHARACTER
SO I WANTED TO SAY THAT IT SAYS
OF THE DISTRICT.
LOW TO MID RISE I THINK IN THE
SO I WANTED TO SAY THAT IT SAYS
TABLE FOR ONE OR TWO BUT ALSO
LOW TO MID RISE I THINK IN THE
SAYS YOU KNOW, IN OTHER PLACES
TABLE FOR ONE OR TWO BUT ALSO
HIGHER INTENSITY USAGE AND
SAYS YOU KNOW, IN OTHER PLACES
HIGHER DENSITY HOUSING AND
HIGHER INTENSITY USAGE AND
AGAIN THAT'S NOT REALLY I THINK
HIGHER DENSITY HOUSING AND
THE THRUST OF WHAT I'M SAYING
AGAIN THAT'S NOT REALLY I THINK
THE MAIN POINT IS BECAUSE IT
THE THRUST OF WHAT I'M SAYING
BACKS INTO SOME HUB AND BECAUSE
THE MAIN POINT IS BECAUSE IT
IT ALSO GOES RIGHT UP AGAINST
BACKS INTO SOME HUB AND BECAUSE
SOME HOUSES, I THINK IT'S GOT
IT ALSO GOES RIGHT UP AGAINST
TO HAVE ITS OK IF IT'S HIGH
SOME HOUSES, I THINK IT'S GOT
RISE IN SPOTS BUT IT'S IT'S GOT
TO HAVE ITS OK IF IT'S HIGH
TO TAPER AS YOU GET CLOSER TO
RISE IN SPOTS BUT IT'S IT'S GOT
RESIDENTIAL REALLY.
TO TAPER AS YOU GET CLOSER TO
AND I THINK THAT SOLVES FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL REALLY.
MILLER OBJECTION BECAUSE THE
AND I THINK THAT SOLVES FOR THE
MILLER OBJECTION WE'RE GETTING
MILLER OBJECTION BECAUSE THE
IS THIS IS TOO DENSE FOR US AND
MILLER OBJECTION WE'RE GETTING
IF THE TAPERING IS RIGHT THEN
IS THIS IS TOO DENSE FOR US AND
THAT SOLVES SOME OF THE
IF THE TAPERING IS RIGHT THEN
OBJECTION TO MILLER IS ALSO
THAT SOLVES SOME OF THE
THAT THE RIGHT OF WAY IS VERY
OBJECTION TO MILLER IS ALSO
NARROW AND THAT IT'S THE SAME
THAT THE RIGHT OF WAY IS VERY
AS THE PRESIDENT LIKE MANY
NARROW AND THAT IT'S THE SAME
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL ROADS THAT
AS THE PRESIDENT LIKE MANY
WE DID NOT TO TRANSITION.
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL ROADS THAT
>> SO THERE'S THOUSANDS SOLVE
WE DID NOT TO TRANSITION.
ALL OF IT BUT A LOT OF A LOT
>> SO THERE'S THOUSANDS SOLVE
OF THE CONCERN HAS BEEN WE'RE
ALL OF IT BUT A LOT OF A LOT
GOING TO GET THESE TALLER
OF THE CONCERN HAS BEEN WE'RE
BUILDINGS RIGHT UP RIGHT UP
GOING TO GET THESE TALLER
ALONG HERE.
BUILDINGS RIGHT UP RIGHT UP
AND I THINK HAVING A HAVING
ALONG HERE.
THAT TAPERING BACK IS MORE
AND I THINK HAVING A HAVING
CLEARLY STATED HELPS A LITTLE
THAT TAPERING BACK IS MORE
BIT.
CLEARLY STATED HELPS A LITTLE
IT WOULD ALSO HELP TO KNOW WHAT
BIT.
IT'S GOING TO TAPER FROM OR IF
IT WOULD ALSO HELP TO KNOW WHAT
IT'S NOT GOING TO I MEAN I
IT'S GOING TO TAPER FROM OR IF
DON'T KNOW WHAT WAS GIVEN AT
IT'S NOT GOING TO I MEAN I
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
DON'T KNOW WHAT WAS GIVEN AT
AND I THINK AND I'M WORRIED
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
THAT THE LOW LEVEL IN
AND I THINK AND I'M WORRIED
TRANSITION THAT WAS SOMETIMES
THAT THE LOW LEVEL IN
REFERRED TO IS ACTUALLY MORE
TRANSITION THAT WAS SOMETIMES
AGGRESSIVE THAN ONE IS BECAUSE
REFERRED TO IS ACTUALLY MORE
IN ONE THE TAPER IS IF YOU'RE
AGGRESSIVE THAN ONE IS BECAUSE
WITHIN 80 FEET OF AN R1 ONE YOU
IN ONE THE TAPER IS IF YOU'RE
CAN HAVE 55 FEET OF I DON'T
WITHIN 80 FEET OF AN R1 ONE YOU
THINK WE PUT IT HAVE WE
CAN HAVE 55 FEET OF I DON'T
DISCUSSED THIS TAPER?
THINK WE PUT IT HAVE WE
>> WHERE ARE YOU BASING THAT
DISCUSSED THIS TAPER?
ON?
>> WHERE ARE YOU BASING THAT
I AM JUST BASING IT ON SLIDES.
ON?
I DO THINK I DO THINK IN OUR
I AM JUST BASING IT ON SLIDES.
SLIDES WE HAD TALKED TAPERING
I DO THINK I DO THINK IN OUR
HEIGHTS FOR THIS UM DISTRICT
SLIDES WE HAD TALKED TAPERING
AND I DON'T THINK WE HAD THE
HEIGHTS FOR THIS UM DISTRICT
SPECIFICITY OF RIGHT NOW WHAT
AND I DON'T THINK WE HAD THE
THAT WAS.
SPECIFICITY OF RIGHT NOW WHAT
YEAH.
THAT WAS.
AND I HAD THAT CONVERSATION A
YEAH.
LOT WITH YOU ON MILLER AS WELL
AND I HAD THAT CONVERSATION A
LIKE YOU KNOW THAT WE ENVISION
LOT WITH YOU ON MILLER AS WELL
TAPERING BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
LIKE YOU KNOW THAT WE ENVISION
THAT MEANS.
TAPERING BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
THAT MEANS.
FOR HOW IT WOULD BE REALIZED
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
THERE OR NOT BECAUSE THOSE
FOR HOW IT WOULD BE REALIZED
WOULD BE DETAILS OF THE DESIGN
THERE OR NOT BECAUSE THOSE
SO THAT I THINK THERE'S A
WOULD BE DETAILS OF THE DESIGN
CONCERN BECAUSE IF THERE ARE
SO THAT I THINK THERE'S A
DETAILS OUT THERE AND THE
CONCERN BECAUSE IF THERE ARE
DETAILS ARE HIGHER THAN THAN
DETAILS OUT THERE AND THE
THE PRESIDENT OF EVEN ONE AND
DETAILS ARE HIGHER THAN THAN
THERE ARE THINGS LIKE MILLER
THE PRESIDENT OF EVEN ONE AND
FOR IF WE ARE KEEPING THAT IF
THERE ARE THINGS LIKE MILLER
TRAVER IS PART OF THAT OR WITH
FOR IF WE ARE KEEPING THAT IF
OUR NUMBERS ON THE SLIDE.
TRAVER IS PART OF THAT OR WITH
YES.
OUR NUMBERS ON THE SLIDE.
ORIGINALLY WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT
YES.
ALL OF THESE DISTRICTS WE HAD
ORIGINALLY WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT
HIGHTS ATTACHED TO THEM.
ALL OF THESE DISTRICTS WE HAD
WE TRANSITION WAS FOUR TO SEVEN
HIGHTS ATTACHED TO THEM.
STORIES.
WE TRANSITION WAS FOUR TO SEVEN
>> YEAH, IT WAS UP TO MINIMUM
STORIES.
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT I'M SEEING
>> YEAH, IT WAS UP TO MINIMUM
RIGHT IS THAT WE WOULD USE THE
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT I'M SEEING
WE WOULD LIMIT EVEN LOWER IF
RIGHT IS THAT WE WOULD USE THE
YOU WERE DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO
WE WOULD LIMIT EVEN LOWER IF
RIGHT TO RESIDENTIAL.
YOU WERE DIRECTLY ADJACENT TO
>> SO A LOT OF THEM ARE RIGHT
RIGHT TO RESIDENTIAL.
BECAUSE THEY'RE ON CORRIDORS
>> SO A LOT OF THEM ARE RIGHT
THAT HAVE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
BECAUSE THEY'RE ON CORRIDORS
ON THEM.
THAT HAVE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
>> UM SO WHAT DOES ADJACENT
ON THEM.
MEAN THOUGH BECAUSE IN DC ONE
>> UM SO WHAT DOES ADJACENT
ADJACENT MEANS SHOOT IT MEANS
MEAN THOUGH BECAUSE IN DC ONE
THE IT'S WITHIN 80 FEET.
ADJACENT MEANS SHOOT IT MEANS
THAT'S THE THAT'S FOR THE
THE IT'S WITHIN 80 FEET.
LOWEST HEIGHT IN DC ONE YOU CAN
THAT'S THE THAT'S FOR THE
GET FIFTY FIVE FEET IF YOU'RE
LOWEST HEIGHT IN DC ONE YOU CAN
WITHIN 80 FEET OF IN OUR ONE.
GET FIFTY FIVE FEET IF YOU'RE
I DON'T MEAN THAT I DON'T MEAN
WITHIN 80 FEET OF IN OUR ONE.
TO RESTRICT THE DEBATE.
I DON'T MEAN THAT I DON'T MEAN
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE ASKING
TO RESTRICT THE DEBATE.
COUNSEL.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE ASKING
I'M JUST ASKING GOOD QUESTIONS
COUNSEL.
BUT I GUESS THAT FEEL SEPARATE
I'M JUST ASKING GOOD QUESTIONS
FROM ME FROM CAN WE CAN WE SAY
BUT I GUESS THAT FEEL SEPARATE
HI ROSE LOW RISE LIKE THAT GETS
FROM ME FROM CAN WE CAN WE SAY
TO A LEVEL OF DETAIL THAT I'M
HI ROSE LOW RISE LIKE THAT GETS
NOT SURE I WANT TO GET INTO IN
TO A LEVEL OF DETAIL THAT I'M
THIS DOCUMENT.
NOT SURE I WANT TO GET INTO IN
I AGREE.
THIS DOCUMENT.
BUT IF IT'S OUT THERE AND THERE
I AGREE.
ARE PETITIONS BEING CIRCULATED
BUT IF IT'S OUT THERE AND THERE
AND SIGNED BECAUSE THEY THINK
ARE PETITIONS BEING CIRCULATED
SOMETHING IS FIXED AND I HEAR
AND SIGNED BECAUSE THEY THINK
THE ISSUE I'M JUST SAYING I'M
SOMETHING IS FIXED AND I HEAR
ASKING FOR A STRAW POLL.
THE ISSUE I'M JUST SAYING I'M
I'M MAKING A CHANGE TO LOW HIGH
ASKING FOR A STRAW POLL.
RISE AND A TAPER AWAY FROM
I'M MAKING A CHANGE TO LOW HIGH
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
RISE AND A TAPER AWAY FROM
WITHOUT BEING SPECIFIC AND IF
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
YOU WANT TO I THINK RIGHT AFTER
WITHOUT BEING SPECIFIC AND IF
THAT ADDRESS THE ISSUE DO WE
YOU WANT TO I THINK RIGHT AFTER
WANT TO GET SPECIFIC?
THAT ADDRESS THE ISSUE DO WE
I WOULD BE TOTALLY FINE TO HAVE
WANT TO GET SPECIFIC?
THAT DISCUSSION.
I WOULD BE TOTALLY FINE TO HAVE
I JUST DON'T WANT TO DO THIS.
THAT DISCUSSION.
I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T WANT TO
I JUST DON'T WANT TO DO THIS.
MAKE THE JOB THAT STAFF HAS
I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T WANT TO
OF INCORPORATING THE AD.
MAKE THE JOB THAT STAFF HAS
IT'S HARDER BY TANGLING UP TWO
OF INCORPORATING THE AD.
DIFFERENT CONVERSATIONS AND ONE
IT'S HARDER BY TANGLING UP TWO
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
DIFFERENT CONVERSATIONS AND ONE
SO YEAH.
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
IS THERE ANY OPPOSITION TO LOAD
SO YEAH.
OF HIGH RISE WITH A FROM WHAT
IS THERE ANY OPPOSITION TO LOAD
HOW TO FRAME IT IN MY NOTE I
OF HIGH RISE WITH A FROM WHAT
SAID REWARD MID RISE MEDIUM
HOW TO FRAME IT IN MY NOTE I
SCALE IN REFERENCE TO
SAID REWARD MID RISE MEDIUM
TRANSITION TO READ LOW TO HIGH
SCALE IN REFERENCE TO
RISE BUILDINGS DEPENDING
TRANSITION TO READ LOW TO HIGH
PROXIMITY TO NEARBY RESIDENTIAL
RISE BUILDINGS DEPENDING
HOMES.
PROXIMITY TO NEARBY RESIDENTIAL
>> SO YEAH THE PURPOSE
HOMES.
OF TRANSITION WAS TO BE MID
>> SO YEAH THE PURPOSE
RISE.
OF TRANSITION WAS TO BE MID
I UNDERSTAND ASKING FOR IT TO
RISE.
STAY LOW TO HIGH RISE BUILDINGS
I UNDERSTAND ASKING FOR IT TO
DEPENDING ON PROXIMITY TO
STAY LOW TO HIGH RISE BUILDINGS
NEARBY RESIDENTIAL HOMES
DEPENDING ON PROXIMITY TO
BECAUSE SOME TRANSITION BACKS
NEARBY RESIDENTIAL HOMES
THE HUB AND THERE'S NO REASON
BECAUSE SOME TRANSITION BACKS
TO LIMIT IT TO MID RISE.
THE HUB AND THERE'S NO REASON
>> THEY'RE OR IT'S ISOLATED AND
TO LIMIT IT TO MID RISE.
FAR AWAY FROM A RESIDENTIAL
>> THEY'RE OR IT'S ISOLATED AND
HOME.
FAR AWAY FROM A RESIDENTIAL
IT'S LIKE AGAIN IN THE
HOME.
SENSITIVITY THAT FEELS ENTIRELY
IT'S LIKE AGAIN IN THE
RELATED TO GETTING CLOSE TO A
SENSITIVITY THAT FEELS ENTIRELY
RESIDENTIAL PARCEL AND I THINK
RELATED TO GETTING CLOSE TO A
WE CAN DESIGN A TAPER MECHANISM
RESIDENTIAL PARCEL AND I THINK
LIKE WE DID IN ONE TO DO THAT
WE CAN DESIGN A TAPER MECHANISM
WORK FOR US.
LIKE WE DID IN ONE TO DO THAT
AND IF IT'S RIGHT UP AGAINST
WORK FOR US.
HUB THERE'S NO REASON TO LIMIT
AND IF IT'S RIGHT UP AGAINST
AND MAYBE STAFF DO YOU WANT TO
HUB THERE'S NO REASON TO LIMIT
EXPLAIN YOUR RATIONALE FOR
AND MAYBE STAFF DO YOU WANT TO
WANTING TO LIMIT EVEN WHEN IT
EXPLAIN YOUR RATIONALE FOR
ACTS SO WE WE THOUGHT THAT IT
WANTING TO LIMIT EVEN WHEN IT
WAS APPROPRIATE TO SWITCH AT A
ACTS SO WE WE THOUGHT THAT IT
SCALE THAT WOULD BE SMALLER
WAS APPROPRIATE TO SWITCH AT A
THAN THE HUBS WE'VE IDENTIFIED
SCALE THAT WOULD BE SMALLER
AT THE HUB ARE THE MOST INTENSE
THAN THE HUBS WE'VE IDENTIFIED
PLACE FOR DEVELOPMENT UM
AT THE HUB ARE THE MOST INTENSE
TRANSITIONS WE NEED TO DO A LOT
PLACE FOR DEVELOPMENT UM
OF BUILDING CODE POTENTIAL
TRANSITIONS WE NEED TO DO A LOT
WHICH I HONESTLY HAVEN'T BEEN
OF BUILDING CODE POTENTIAL
FULLY REALIZED YET WITH THE
WHICH I HONESTLY HAVEN'T BEEN
ADOPTION OF NEW BUILDING CODES
FULLY REALIZED YET WITH THE
UM UH SETTING HIGH OF SEVEN
ADOPTION OF NEW BUILDING CODES
STOREYS WOULD HAVE BEEN
UM UH SETTING HIGH OF SEVEN
APPROXIMATE TO THE
STOREYS WOULD HAVE BEEN
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE AND
APPROXIMATE TO THE
A LOT OF HOUSING GETS BUILT
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE AND
ACROSS THE COUNTRY UNDER THE
A LOT OF HOUSING GETS BUILT
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE .
ACROSS THE COUNTRY UNDER THE
BUT BECAUSE WE'RE SO SPECIAL
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE .
HERE IN MICHIGAN WE DECIDED
BUT BECAUSE WE'RE SO SPECIAL
LET'S KEEP THAT AROUND FIVE
HERE IN MICHIGAN WE DECIDED
STORIES INSTEAD.
LET'S KEEP THAT AROUND FIVE
UM, SO THAT WAS THE INTENTION
STORIES INSTEAD.
OF IT IS TO AND ALSO TO
UM, SO THAT WAS THE INTENTION
COMMUNICATE A SMALLER SCALE
OF IT IS TO AND ALSO TO
OF DEVELOPMENT UM OUT JUST IN
COMMUNICATE A SMALLER SCALE
THE WAY I'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
OF DEVELOPMENT UM OUT JUST IN
WITH A LOT OF PEOPLE OVER THE
THE WAY I'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
COURSE OF THE LAST COUPLE
WITH A LOT OF PEOPLE OVER THE
OF YEARS IS TALKING A LOT ABOUT
COURSE OF THE LAST COUPLE
THE DEVELOPMENT ON SOMETHING
OF YEARS IS TALKING A LOT ABOUT
THE YARD AND SIX EIGHTEEN AS
THE DEVELOPMENT ON SOMETHING
EXAMPLES OF THE TYPES
THE YARD AND SIX EIGHTEEN AS
OF DEVELOPMENT TYPOLOGY THAT I
EXAMPLES OF THE TYPES
THINK WOULD BE REALLY
OF DEVELOPMENT TYPOLOGY THAT I
APPROPRIATE ALONG THESE
THINK WOULD BE REALLY
CORRIDORS UM WITHOUT THE
APPROPRIATE ALONG THESE
SPECIFICITY AS TO HOW FAR IT
CORRIDORS UM WITHOUT THE
WOULD DROP AS IT GETS CLOSER TO
SPECIFICITY AS TO HOW FAR IT
RESIDENTIAL OR WITH WHAT
WOULD DROP AS IT GETS CLOSER TO
PROXIMITY WHETHER IT WOULD DROP
RESIDENTIAL OR WITH WHAT
BELOW FOUR STORIES AT ALL.
PROXIMITY WHETHER IT WOULD DROP
SO I THINK WHAT NOW IS BEING
BELOW FOUR STORIES AT ALL.
CONSIDERED IS THAT THIS
SO I THINK WHAT NOW IS BEING
DISTRICT IS REALLY MORE
CONSIDERED IS THAT THIS
REFERENTIAL.
DISTRICT IS REALLY MORE
SO IT I GUESS WHAT I'M HEARING
REFERENTIAL.
IS THAT IT MIGHT DROP THE THREE
SO IT I GUESS WHAT I'M HEARING
STORIES WHEN IT GETS CLOSE TO
IS THAT IT MIGHT DROP THE THREE
RESIDENTIAL AND HAVE THE SAME
STORIES WHEN IT GETS CLOSE TO
LIMIT AS WHEN IT'S ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL AND HAVE THE SAME
HUB WHICH IS JUST A LITTLE BIT
LIMIT AS WHEN IT'S ADJACENT TO
DIFFERENT ABOUT HOW WE WERE
HUB WHICH IS JUST A LITTLE BIT
LAYING OUT THAT DISTRICT.
DIFFERENT ABOUT HOW WE WERE
BUT THAT'S THE PREROGATIVE.
LAYING OUT THAT DISTRICT.
ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS I
BUT THAT'S THE PREROGATIVE.
RECALL READING IN THE SOMEWHERE
ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS I
IS THAT THAT YEAH, IT'S
RECALL READING IN THE SOMEWHERE
ACTUALLY THE END OF THIS
IS THAT THAT YEAH, IT'S
CHAPTER THAT THE THE THE WILL
ACTUALLY THE END OF THIS
NOW LET ME JUST QUOTE IT
CHAPTER THAT THE THE THE WILL
BECAUSE IT SAYS THAT THERE
NOW LET ME JUST QUOTE IT
THERE'S A DESIRE FOR SOME
BECAUSE IT SAYS THAT THERE
FLEXIBILITY AROUND WHERE THESE
THERE'S A DESIRE FOR SOME
WHERE THE BOUNDARIES OF THESE
FLEXIBILITY AROUND WHERE THESE
THINGS ARE AND SO ONE WAY TO TO
WHERE THE BOUNDARIES OF THESE
I SHOULD JUST OH GOD I REALLY
THINGS ARE AND SO ONE WAY TO TO
HATE THE WAY SCREEN DOES THAT
I SHOULD JUST OH GOD I REALLY
UM IT IS YEAH.
HATE THE WAY SCREEN DOES THAT
ALLOWING CERTAIN BOUNDARIES TO
UM IT IS YEAH.
BE FLUID RATHER THAN STRICTLY
ALLOWING CERTAIN BOUNDARIES TO
PRESCRIPTIVE AND SO I SUPPOSE
BE FLUID RATHER THAN STRICTLY
THAT THE CHANGE THAT
PRESCRIPTIVE AND SO I SUPPOSE
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS PROPOSING
THAT THE CHANGE THAT
WOULD ENABLE GREATER FLUIDITY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS IS PROPOSING
WHERE TRANSITION MEETS HUB AND
WOULD ENABLE GREATER FLUIDITY
WE MIGHT WANT GREATER FLUIDITY
WHERE TRANSITION MEETS HUB AND
WHERE TRANSITION MEETS OUR ONE
WE MIGHT WANT GREATER FLUIDITY
.
WHERE TRANSITION MEETS OUR ONE
>> MM HMM.
.
AND SO THAT'S YOU CAN TAKE THAT
>> MM HMM.
TO A VOTE IF YOU WANT.
AND SO THAT'S YOU CAN TAKE THAT
YEAH, I THINK YOU HAVE THAT
TO A VOTE IF YOU WANT.
WITH THE LANGUAGE AS IT IS.
YEAH, I THINK YOU HAVE THAT
I THINK WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED
WITH THE LANGUAGE AS IT IS.
IS BASICALLY JUST THE
I THINK WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED
TRANSITION ZONE HAVING A WIDER
IS BASICALLY JUST THE
RANGE OF OPPORTUNITY.
TRANSITION ZONE HAVING A WIDER
YES.
RANGE OF OPPORTUNITY.
THAN HAVING SORT OF A SEPARATE
YES.
COMMUNICATED CARRIKER DISTRICT
THAN HAVING SORT OF A SEPARATE
AS IT'S CURRENTLY BUILDING IT
COMMUNICATED CARRIKER DISTRICT
OUT A LITTLE BIT.
AS IT'S CURRENTLY BUILDING IT
YEAH.
OUT A LITTLE BIT.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO SIGNAL TO
YEAH.
PEOPLE WHEN THEY READ LOW TO
AND I ALSO WANTED TO SIGNAL TO
HIGH RISE BUILDINGS DEPENDING
PEOPLE WHEN THEY READ LOW TO
ON PROXIMITY TO RESIDENTIAL
HIGH RISE BUILDINGS DEPENDING
HOMES I WANT PEOPLE TO READ
ON PROXIMITY TO RESIDENTIAL
THAT SENTENCE AND SEE THE
HOMES I WANT PEOPLE TO READ
TAPERING WITHOUT HAVING TO
THAT SENTENCE AND SEE THE
REFERENCE SOMETHING ELSE AND
TAPERING WITHOUT HAVING TO
JUST ONE OTHER PIECE THAT I
REFERENCE SOMETHING ELSE AND
DON'T I DON'T I DON'T I DON'T
JUST ONE OTHER PIECE THAT I
THINK THIS IS A REASON NOT NOT
DON'T I DON'T I DON'T I DON'T
TO CONSIDER THAT CHANGE BUT
THINK THIS IS A REASON NOT NOT
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TO CONSIDER THAT CHANGE BUT
INTEREST EXERCISING
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
INFRASTRUCTURE, WHETHER IT'S
INTEREST EXERCISING
LOCATION ACROSS THE CITY ADDING
INFRASTRUCTURE, WHETHER IT'S
HIGH RISE POTENTIALLY TO MORE
LOCATION ACROSS THE CITY ADDING
OF THESE DISTRICTS, IT JUST
HIGH RISE POTENTIALLY TO MORE
MIGHT BE A FACTOR IN AREAS
OF THESE DISTRICTS, IT JUST
OF THE CITY THAT MIGHT NOW BE
MIGHT BE A FACTOR IN AREAS
REAL MIGHT HAVE THE POTENTIAL
OF THE CITY THAT MIGHT NOW BE
FOR GREATER CAPACITY.
REAL MIGHT HAVE THE POTENTIAL
IT MIGHT ALSO RESULT IN
FOR GREATER CAPACITY.
DIFFERENT PROJECTIONS.
IT MIGHT ALSO RESULT IN
YOU KNOW, YOU'LL RECALL SOME
DIFFERENT PROJECTIONS.
OF THE EARLY PROJECTIONS WE DID
YOU KNOW, YOU'LL RECALL SOME
ABOUT BUILD OUT OF THE FUTURE
OF THE EARLY PROJECTIONS WE DID
LAND USE MAP THAT MIGHT CHANGE
ABOUT BUILD OUT OF THE FUTURE
THE POTENTIAL TO INCREASE THAT
LAND USE MAP THAT MIGHT CHANGE
VOLUME AS WELL.
THE POTENTIAL TO INCREASE THAT
>> SO YEAH, IT'S I DON'T THINK
VOLUME AS WELL.
THE FLUIDITY
IS I THINK THAT'S
BUILT INTO THE PLAN THAT'S THE
INTENTION IS WHEN YOU HAVE A
TRANSITION VERSUS A HUB YOU
WANT THE FLUIDITY TO UNDERSTAND
THAT UM IT'S HARD FOR US TO
PREDICT NOW 20 YEARS FROM NOW
WHAT THE PATTERN OF LAND USE
OWNERSHIP IN ARRANGEMENT IS
THERE AND GIVE THE CITY A
REASONABLE OPPORTUNITY TO
CONSIDER HOW TO HOW TO HOW TO
RESPOND TO A REQUEST.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT THAT THAT
IS PARTICULARLY HELPED OR HURT
IN ANY WAY BY THIS PROPOSED
CHANGE.
>> OK, AND TO BE SPECIFIC, ARE
WE TALKING PAGE ONE OR TWO ON
THE TABLE?
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT'S SO
INTERESTING TO MID RISE INSTEAD
OF LOWER MID RISE YOU'RE SAYING
LOW TO HIGH RISE AND IT TAPERS
GOTCHA.
AND DEPENDING ON APPROXIMATE
PROXIMITY TO SAYS ABOVE CONTEXT
SENSITIVE TO HEIGHT.
BUT I AGREE THAT YOUR WORDING
YES COMMISSIONER ADAMS MAKE IT
DOESN'T MAKE THEM HAVE TO READ
TO BULLET POINTS AND HOLD A
THOUGHT IN THEIR HEAD THAT
LONG.
I DON'T WANT HIGH RISE RIPPED
OUT OF CONTEXT.
I WANT THE ATTENTION CLEAR
ABSOLUTELY.
BECAUSE AGAIN COULD BE
INFLAMMATORY.
IT'S NOT THE INTENT.
IT'S JUST GET CLOSE.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO GO HIGHER.
SO CAN I JUST LOOK AT THE BIG
MAP FOR ONE MINUTE?
>> YEAH I KNOW I KNOW YOU GUYS
AND THEN WHILE THAT HAPPENS,
CAN I JUST UM CAN I JUST ASK
WHAT UNIFIED STREET MEANS?
>> I MEAN WE'VE GOT TO START
WE'RE DONE OR YEAH.
OH YEAH.
IS THERE CONSENSUS I DON'T
THINK THERE'S OBJECTION.
YEAH I'M GOOD WITH IT.
OK OK GREAT DISH YOU DIDN'T
OBJECT OK SO WE WE'RE GOOD ON
THAT CHANGE THEN THE NEXT ONE
JUST UNDERNEATH THE UNIFIED
STREETWALKING SOMEBODY OVER
PAGE ONE OR TWO.
>> YEAH IT'S JUST IT'S JUST
RIGHT UNDERNEATH THAT HI.
I DIDN'T KNOW YEAH IT'S I THINK
THAT IS OBVIOUSLY UNSUCCESSFUL
BUT IT'S INTENDED TO REFLECT A
LOT OF SOME OF THE SIMILAR
STANDARDS THAT WE HAVE WITH OUR
THAT WE HAD ORIGINALLY HAD WITH
SOME OUR ONE AND OR IF YOU
WANTED TO OR WE HAVE SOME
REQUIREMENTS THAT YOU HAVE UH
MAXIMUM SET BACKS AND THAT YOU
WANT TO WE HAVE FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS WHERE YOU HAVE TO
OCCUPY A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF THE
BLOCK.
SO IT WAS INTENDED TO
COMMUNICATE THAT AS PART OF THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT IT WAS
INTENDED TO BE VERY CORE STRING
ORIENTED AND PART OF THAT UM TO
USE YOUR I THINK SOME OF THE
EXPRESSIONS THAT YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP WITH PEOPLE
WHETHER IT'S MATERIAL OR HEIGHT
OR WHATEVER.
SO I THINK AN UNSUCCESSFUL WAY
OF TRYING TO SAY THAT THAT THE
FORM OF DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE
VERY MULTIMODAL SUPPORT OF AND
UM YOU KNOW, TYPICALLY FOR A
PEDESTRIAN MAYBE CAN WE JUST
SAY A PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED FOR
SURE.
>> YEAH.
OK, STREET COOL SOMETHING.
YEAH FIRST TO WALK BY FIRST.
YEAH NICE TO WALK BY.
YEAH I MEAN THAT'S A BIG WHAT
WE MEAN LIKE GOOD FOR
PEDESTRIANS PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
.
CAN WE STAY HERE FOR A MOMENT
AND I CAN MAKE ANOTHER
SUGGESTION FOR A REVISION TO
THAT TIME I THINK WE WERE
ALWAYS PLANNING TO COME BACK TO
THIS TABLE ONCE WE TALKED ABOUT
ALL OF THE DISTRICTS AND THEN
WE COULD MAKE THE CHANGES.
SO OK, WELL I JUST WOULD LIKE
TO STRIKE ACTIVE FIRST
COMMERCIAL.
YES.
I THINK WE'VE HEARD FROM A LOT
OF PEOPLE SENDING US COMMENTS
AND ALSO WITHIN THIS BODY THAT
THERE WOULD BE MANY GOOD
COMMERCIAL USES THAT MAY NOT
QUALIFY AS ACTIVE THAT WE WOULD
WANT TO ALLOW IN TRANSITION
ZONE.
I GOT THEIR COMMENTS WAS MORE
THAT THEY DON'T WANT TO REQUIRE
THERE'S ACTIVE LIKE THAT.
THERE'S A COMMERCIAL USE AT ALL
AT ALL.
SO SO SHOULD WE JUST CHANGE IT
TO SAY YOU WANT TO STRIKE THAT
FOR BOTH A HUB AND THE
TRANSITION?
I YEAH I WOULD SUPPORT THAT AS
LONG AS IT'S NOT REQUIRED.
I MEAN I THINK WE IT'S NOT
YEAH.
>> IF IT'S NOT THAT WE REQUIRE
WE HAVE A LOT OF WE LIKE I
WOULD ENVISION US REVISITING OR
KEEPING OR MODIFYING OUR FORM
STANDARDS LIKE ABOUT
TRANSPARENCY AND PERSONAL RIGHT
BUT WE DON'T HAVE TO KEEP THOSE
EITHER SHOULD I SAY PERMISSIVE
INSTEAD OF ACTIVE.
RIGHT YEAH IT WOULD BE BETTER
TO KEEP SOMETHING BUT WE DON'T
WANT TO REQUIRE IT.
>> YEAH WELL SO IT DOESN'T IT'S
REFERRED THAT'S WELL IT'S JUST
NOT CLEAR I THINK YEAH I THINK
THAT'S ALL THAT WE'RE NOT WE'RE
NOT SAYING THAT IT'S IT'S IT'S
JUST LISTED THERE SO YEAH I
GUESS I READ EVERYTHING I READ
MOST OF THIS AS SOMETHING WHICH
IS GOING TO BE REQUIRED LIMITED
IS IT AN ASPIRATION OR NOT.
SURE THAT'S WHY ASPIRATION I
THINK IT'S AN ASPIRATION
OF BEING HERE IS A GOAL.
>> SO I MISREADING THIS I SAID
MAYBE THIS IS THE ISSUE.
I'M ASSUMING THINGS IN HERE ARE
EITHER LIMITS OR REQUIREMENTS
EITHER THESE ARE THESE ARE JUST
DESCRIPTIONS THAT DESCRIBE
THESE BUT WE MIGHT KNOW BUT
WHEN YOU SAY LOW TO MID RISE
YOU MEAN THAT'S ACTUALLY HIGH
RISE ONLY LOW TO MID RISE.
RIGHT.
OR SO WHEN WE SAY THAT'S NOT
BEEN MODIFIED TO VOTE NO I KNOW
.
I'M JUST SAYING THEY'RE NOT
JUST LIKE THIS.
THEY'RE NOT YEAH.
THEY A LIMITATION THEY ARE NOT
DESCRIPTIVE BECAUSE THEY ARE
FOR BEFORE BUT BEFORE WE JUST
TRANSITION WE WOULD NOT HAVE A
HIGH RISE IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT SO IT'S A RESTRICTION
AND THAT WAS THE THAT WAS THE
INTENTION AND AS YOU KNOW
THEY'RE GOING TO SAY IT'S NOT
LIKE INCLUDES BUT IS NOT
LIMITED TO THE FOLLOWING.
IT'S ACTUALLY MORE THIS IS THIS
IS INTENDED TO BE MORE UH,
DEFINING THE LIMITS OR THE
PARAMETERS OR THE CONSTRAINTS.
>> NO.
WELL I THINK MAYBE WE CAN GO
THE OTHER DIRECTION WHEN YOU
SAY ACTIVE FIRST FOR
COMMERCIAL, WHAT DO YOU INTEND
THAT TO COMMUNICATE?
>> UM, FOR ME IT WOULD BE AN
ASPIRATIONAL THAT THE FIRST
FOUR BUSINESSES HAVE A POSSIBLE
CONNECTION.
THEY HAVE UM, PROSODY LIKE
WHERE PEOPLE MIGHT BE COMING
AND GOING UM THAT MAY BE AN
ACTIVITY IT MIGHT BE A RETAIL
USE.
IT MIGHT BE AN OFFICE MAYBE
IT'S JUST A GYM AS PART OF AN
APARTMENT COMPLEX.
BUT I THINK ALL OF THOSE CAN
HELP CREATE AN INTERESTING
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE.
UM, I DON'T YEAH I AGREE.
I DON'T THINK I'M NOT SURE
ACTIVE USE IS THE RIGHT TERM
BUT MY QUESTION IS IS THAT A
GOAL OF OURS LIKE YOU PREFER TO
HAVE THE EXPERIENCE OF YOU
KNOW, THE BANK ACCOUNTS OF ME
AND SO PERSONALLY WE WE I WOULD
RANK THOSE ARE THINGS I WOULD
PREFER TO SEE BUT I WOULD NEVER
WANT TO RISK SOMETHING THAT
WOULD CAUSE NO LIKE THAT WOULD
I WAS GOING TO BE HOUSING
GREAT.
DO YOU WANT TO WE GET TO
ENCOURAGE YOU WANT TO IDENTIFY
IT AS A GOAL TO SEE IF THAT'S
SOMETHING WE CAN ACHIEVE OR
NOT.
THAT'S THE GOAL SO I PERSONALLY
THINK THAT IT'S THE JANE JACOBS
KIND OF LIKE EYES ON THE STREET
CONCEPT.
RIGHT?
LIKE I WANT PASSIVE SECURITY
BEING ENCOURAGED ON SIDEWALKS.
I JUST FEEL LIKE I THINK IN DC
WHAT FOR EXAMPLE REQUIRED WHAT
70 PERCENT TRANSPARENCY ON LIKE
GLASS KIND OF ON THE FIRST.
SO I CERTAINLY THINK IT'S AN
ASPIRATION THAT WE WANT TO
INCREASE PAST SECURITY.
>> I MEAN IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO BE ACTIVE
BUT EVEN JUST HAVING EYES
SOMEBODY BEING ABLE TO SEE
WHAT'S HAPPENING ON THE GROUND
FLOOR IS GREAT.
THE CHALLENGE IS IS LIKE IF YOU
HAD IMPOSED IT AND SAID LIKE
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOME TYPE OF A
COMMERCIAL RIGHT THEN IT'S LIKE
OK, WELL IT'S VACANT.
SORRY.
YEAH, I CAN'T LEAVE RIGHT NOW.
I THINK IT'S JUST THE QUESTION
OF HOW PEOPLE READ IT.
I DID NOT READ THAT AS A LIST
OF REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE THEY
RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL MIGHT
INDUSTRIALIZE DO YOU WEREN'T
GOING TO REQUIRE INDUSTRIAL SO
I DIDN'T READ IT AS A
REQUIREMENT BUT I HAD A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE RAISED TO ME MAKE
SURE THAT YOU GUYS DON'T
REQUIRE THAT.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE JUST IT'S
JUST A MATTER OF CLARIFICATION
OR SOMETHING OR BECAUSE SOMEONE
DID COME UP TO ME AT A COMMENT
SESSION AT AN ENGAGEMENT
SESSION AND SAY THE PROBLEM IS
WE DON'T TRUST YOU.
AND I THOUGHT YEAH, THAT IS THE
PROBLEM.
THANK YOU FOR TELLING ME.
AND YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES THE WAY
WE WORK THINGS IT HELPS WHEN
YOU ARE LIKE THEY JUST PUT THE
MOST SUSPICIOUS SPIN AND YEAH,
AND YOU SAY LIKE OH MY GOD,
THINGS ARE CHANGING THIS WORD
BUT I DON'T THINK ACTIVE IS THE
PROBLEM.
I THINK JUST HOW ARE YOU
READING THAT LIST?
YEAH.
IS THERE A SUGGESTION I'D LIKE
TO CHANGE TO PREFER ACTIVE
FIRST FOR USERS OR ENCOURAGE OR
ENCOURAGE.
>> WELL NO WE JUST SUGGEST YOU
USE THE COULD I SUGGEST
INTERACTIVE STREETSCAPES OR
SOMETHING REALLY IT WASN'T THE
COMMERCIAL AS YOU WERE TRYING
TO GET SOME DIVERSITY IN
INTERACTION GOING SO PRESIDEN
SO COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
INTERACTIVE STREETSCAPES,
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND NOT AND
THEN I'M NOT SURE INTERACTIVE
IT DOESN'T NECESSARILY SOUND
COMFORTING TO ME.
I'VE WALKED BY INTERACTIVE
STREETSCAPES BUT NOT
NECESSARILY GREAT.
I DON'T THINK I DON'T THINK THE
ISSUE I MEAN WE COULD TAKE OUT
JUST TAKE OUT THE WORD ACTIVE
AND SAY FIRST LOOK SO WE
BELIEVE IN THE WORD ACTIVE IT
MIGHT JUST BE HELPFUL IF IT WAS
PERMITTED BUILDING USERS
ALONGSIDE YOU THEN IT'S OBVIOUS
THAT IT'S NOT REQUIRED.
>> SO LET'S LET'S NEGRE LET'S
HOLD OFF ON THIS ONE.
>> COME BACK TO IT WHEN WE
TACKLE THE TABLES BECAUSE I
THINK WE CAN TALK ABOUT THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT ON PAGE ONE
TEN AND LET'S CIRCLE BACK TO
BECAUSE WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE
INTENT WE MAY BE CIRCLING A
LITTLE BIT SO I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HIT THIS AND THE
REST OF THE PAGES.
SO LET'S GO TO PAGE ONE TEN.
>> UM, MY COMMENT HERE IS
ACTUALLY WITH THE PARAGRAPH
THAT STARTS WITH BOTH THE RIDE
TWENTY FORTY FIVE LONG RANGE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I'D
LOVE TO SEE FOR THE CONSULTANTS
IS INSTEAD OF THAT SAYING LIKE
EMPHASIZING THE IMPORTANCE THAT
THAT'S WHAT THEY HAVE SAID I'D
LOVE TO SEE IF THERE'S SOME
LEVEL OF INTEGRATIONS THEY PLAN
TO INCREASE BUS SERVICE OR THEY
HAVE A CERTAIN
NUMBER.
I JUST WANT A LITTLE BIT
OF ANALYTIC RIGOR TO THAT
PARTICULAR SENTENCE AS OPPOSED
TO JUST SAYING LIKE THEY PLAN
TO SEE THAT IT IT JUST SAYS
THAT IT EMPHASIZES THE
IMPORTANCE OF GETTING HIGHER
DENSITY DEVELOPMENT IN TRANSIT
ROUTES.
BUT THEN ONE OF THE THINGS I
WAS THINKING OF IS LIKE CAN WE
MORE SPECIFIC?
>> YEAH, I JUST I THINK IT
NEEDS A LITTLE BIT MORE MEAT I
THINK IS KIND OF WHERE MY HEAD
WAS GOING SO YOU KNOW, WE
SHOULDN'T MAKE PROMISES THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANY POWER OVER THE
WELL THAT'S FAIR I SUPPOSE
TWENTY FORTY FIVE IS JUST
SAYING LIKE I'M LIKE I'M I'M
I'M USING MILLER AS KIND
OF LIKE AN EXAMPLE.
THERE'S TWENTY FORTY FIVE STATE
SPOTS OR SERVICE BUT I GUESS
THAT'S BEYOND THE SCOPE OF WHAT
WE HAVE SO OK POINT TAKEN.
>> DISREGARD PLEASE THE WE WANT
ME TO REMOVE THAT AS A COMMENT.
NO NO JUST JUST REMOVE THE
COMMENT.
>> YEAH FORGET I AGREE WITH YOU
WE CAN'T YEAH.
SO SINCE WE COLLAPSED THIS AND
THE FLECK'S DISTRICT WE NEED TO
THINK ABOUT ADDING IN I THINK
THE PRIMARY USES AND BUILDINGS
WAREHOUSING RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT NEED TO GO
SOMEWHERE.
>> DO THEY DON'T THEY FALL
UNDER LIGHT INDUSTRIAL LIGHT
INDUSTRIALS THEY'RE SO
PREVIOUSLY IN THE IN THE THEN I
GUESS THAT WAS WEIRD THING TO
CALL OUT IN THE FLECK'S
DISTRICT BECAUSE THEY HAD LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL PLUS RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT AND WAREHOUSING.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT AGAIN THIS IS WHERE WE
ENDED THE LAST THING WHAT THE
INTENT IS OF THIS DISTRICT IS
INCLUSIVE NOW OF THE KIND
OF INTENT THAT WE HAD INFLUX AS
WELL.
SO AGAIN, I DON'T BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW THAT WE NECESSARILY
NEED TO HAVE TWO SEPARATE
TRANSITION ZONES.
I'M NOT NECESSARILY CALLING FOR
THAT.
I'M JUST CALLING FOR AN INTENT
OF THE ZONE THAT RECOGNIZES THE
MULTIPLE THINGS NOW THAT WE
THINK MIGHT FIT IN THIS AND SO
YEAH.
>> SO TO PIGGYBACK ON THAT, IF
WE HAVE COLLAPSED FLECK'S I
THINK WHAT I'M HEARING IS LIKE
WELL R&D GO SOMEWHERE RIGHT?
>> SO IF THE COLLAPSE OF THE
AND I REMEMBER WAS MR. LEAF
THAT SAID HE DID NOT WANT KIND
OF LIKE INDUSTRIAL USES ON S
INDUSTRIAL OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
>> RIGHT.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR BUT NUISANCE
ORDERS EMANATING BEYOND THE
PROPERTY LINE ALL OF THOSE
STANDARDS STILL APPLY IN THIS
DISTRICT.
RIGHT.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
PERFECT.
YEP.
AND SO I DID BUT I ALSO WANTED
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY TO THOSE USERS WHEN
THEY'RE AGGREGATED AMONG
SIMILAR USERS LIKE FOR EXAMPLE
MARIJUANA BUSINESS OWNERS WHEN
IN INTEGRATED INTO COMMERCIAL
BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL
BUSINESSES WAS A THING.
SO SO ABSOLUTELY NO CHANGE
EXISTS THERE.
BUT I JUST I JUST WANT TO I
JUST WANT TO RECOGNIZE THAT
HAVING TO USERS THAT MIGHT BE
MORE PRONE TO ODAS NEXT TO EACH
OTHER IS MIGHT BE A DIFFERENT
EXPERIENCE THAN ONE OF THOSE
USERS.
THE NEXT PRESIDENTIAL GOTCHA
LIKE A SIGNATURE DOESN'T I
DON'T WANT TO RELITIGATE AGAIN
BUT YOUR EXAMPLE OF MARIJUANA
SHOPS THAT THEY HAVE TO HAVE
FILTERS THEY DON'T ALWAYS WORK
TO THE SATISFACTION OF BUT
THAT'S A CODE ENFORCEMENT
ISSUE.
IT IS.
AND AND IT'S ALSO A RESOURCE
QUESTION.
SO YEAH, THINKING ABOUT STAFF
AND THINKING ABOUT WHEN WE WHAT
WE REQUIRE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER FOR LIKE IT'S NOT EVEN
HOW I MEAN THAT'S ABOUT A
PARKING LOT.
RIGHT.
AND THE FACT THAT IF IT'S A
RESIDENTIAL ALL IF IT'S
RESIDENTIAL IN A MIXED USE ZONE
NOW THE NEIGHBORS HAVE TO HAVE
A CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
WHERE THEY WOULDN'T OTHERWISE.
AND I MEAN I KNOW THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN CHANGE
BUT I LIKE THAT'S ONE WHERE I
THAT I THAT I THINK WHERE THAT
KIND OF COMES UP MAYBE YOU
WEREN'T HERE FOR THE LAST
CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT SO BUT
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IF THERE'S CONTENT ABOUT THINGS
THAT WE WANT TO MAKE SPACE FOR
THE CITY AND WE'VE DECIDED THAT
WE'RE GOING TO COLLAPSE THEM
ALL INTO THE TRANSITION ZONE,
THAT THE TRANSITION ZONE IS NOT
NOW JUST ONLY ABOUT ABOUT UM,
CREATING A STREET WALL BY ROAD
THAT'S GOING TO BE HARD
ACTUALLY.
BUT THAT THAT DECISION WAS
MADE.
YEAH, I THINK SO.
I MY RECOMMENDATION IS THAT
THOSE USERS NOW DO HAVE TO BE
BUILT WITH A STREET WALL AND MY
RECOMMENDATION IS THAT WE ADD
INDUSTRIAL TO THE INTENT
SECTION HERE TO BE A LITTLE BIT
MORE CLEAR ABOUT THAT NOW WE
EXPECT OUR LIGHT INDUSTRIAL TO
BE MEETING THOSE SAME
INTENTIONS ABOUT WALKABLE NODES
AND CORRIDORS AND I WOULD ALSO
SUGGEST THAT IN THE LAST IF WE
ALSO CONSIDER ADDING A HIGH
RISE EXAMPLE TO OUR BUILDING
TYPES THE HIGH RISE EXAMPLE I
DON'T THINK WE NEED TO CHANGE
THE STREETBALL CONCEPT THAT I'M
NOT PROPOSING TO CHANGE IT BUT
I DON'T LIKE THE IDEA WITH
COLLAPSING FLECK'S THIS ONE WAS
THAT THIS ONE ACCOMMODATES
INDUSTRIAL.
IT WASN'T HE WASN'T JUDGMENT
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE INDUSTRIAL
HISTORY WELL ON THE TABLE THAT
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT WE TALKED
ABOUT A STREETWALKING RIGHT BUT
IT DOESN'T REQUIRE A STREET.
SO THERE'S A BIG THERE THOUGH
I'M OK SO WE'RE LOOKING AT ONE
OR TWO OR I THINK WE WERE ON AT
ONE POINT ONE ONE TO HIGHER
DENSITY HOUSING WITH
OPPORTUNITIES FOR COMPLEMENTARY
RETAIL COMMERCIAL SPACE
FOSTERING WALKABLE NODES AND
CORRIDORS AND SO IF NOW WE ARE
INCORPORATING OUR RESEARCH AND
INDUSTRIAL I THINK WE SHOULD
INCORPORATE THAT LANGUAGE HERE.
AND WHEN I SEE WALKABLE HOMES
AND IT I THINK THOSE THREE
WALLS I THINK OF ORIENTATION, I
THINK OF SETBACKS AND SO MY
UNDERSTANDING FROM THAT
CONVERSATION LAST TIME IS WE
ARE NOW IMPOSING THAT INTENTION
ON A GREATER VARIETY OF USES
NOT ONLY THE ONES THAT WERE
INCLUDED HERE BUT ALSO IN THE
WAREHOUSE RESEARCH, ET CETERA.
NO, THAT'S NOT WHAT I INTENDED.
OK, SO THAT I CAN UNDERSTAND
THE INTENT STATEMENT FOR FLEX
SAID PRESERVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
AFFORDABLE DIVERSE MIX
OF FLEXIBLE USES AND SCALES.
YEAH, BUT THAT'S ON NO NO NO
NO.
>> I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT FOLDING THAT INTENT INTO
A TRANSITION.
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS THERE'S
NOTHING ABOUT SCALE IN THAT AND
THE ORIGINAL INTENT FOR THIS
JUST SAYS FLEXIBLE USES WELL
THEN SCALES BUT NO NO I THINK
IT WAS FLEXIBLE THERE.
>> THE TRANSITION DISTRICT I
THINK THE MORE AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION TO SAY WE HAVE A
TYPOLOGY IN MIND OF DEVELOPMENT
FOR THIS AND WE WEREN'T
CARRYING THAT SAME TYPOLOGY TO
THE FLECK'S DISTRICT.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT THAT WAS MY
TAKE ON IT.
AND SO BY ELIMINATING THAT FLUX
DISTRICT, IF YOU HAD DIRECTED
THE TRANSITION DISTRICT WHERE
WE HAD PREVIOUSLY THE FACT BUT
NOW WE'RE IMPOSING THIS
DEVELOPMENT PHYSICAL TYPOLOGY I
UNDERSTAND LIKE CLEAR THAT YOU
WANTED THE FLEXIBILITY OF USE
OF THIS AND I GET THAT.
BUT NOW THIS IS A THIS IS A
EMPL USING A TYPOLOGY
OF PATTERN OF DEVELOPMENT I
THINK.
AND THOSE USES THAT IS GOING TO
BE CHALLENGING, NOT IMPOSSIBLE.
THIS IS THE SAME THING WE
STARTED WITH THIS ONE AND WE
MADE THOSE MODIFICATIONS AND SO
WE CAN DO THE SAME HERE.
BUT I THINK WE SHOULD BE CLEAR
THAT THAT'S NOW HOW WE EXPECT
USERS TO BE REALIZED IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I THINK THERE'S MORE IN WHAT
YOU'RE ENVISIONING THAN THE
WORDS ON THE PAGE.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING
TO CALL ATTENTION TO LIGEIA THE
WORD ON THE PAGE TO SAY SO IS
THAT THE WORD WALKABLE THAT FOR
YOU FILLS IN WITH ILEX?
>> I THINK RESEARCH COULD BE
WALKABLE.
OK, BUT THAT'S JUST ME
PERSONALLY.
>> I'M NOT SAYING THAT DOESN'T
IF THERE'S A TENSION BETWEEN
IDENTIFY THE WORD THAT IS A
TENSION BETWEEN WHAT WE CO-OPT
I DON'T INTEND TO TRANSFORM
SELF INDUSTRIAL INTO A WALKABLE
AND I THINK WE CAN AGREE TO
DISAGREE ON WHETHER IT COULD BE
I'M SAYING I'M NOT TRYING TO
IMPOSE ANYTHING ON THE
INDUSTRIAL WHAT'S CURRENTLY
ZONED THEN WANT TO RUN TO THAT
WE'RE FOLDING IN A TRANSITION
IN TERMS OF ITS WALKABILITY OR
ITS STREET FRONTAGE OR WHATEVER
BUT I NEED STAFF SELBORNE HOW
TO CARVE THOSE DISTRICTS OUT
AND STILL PRESERVE THEY NEED WE
DON'T ALL I INTENDED TO DO WITH
OPPOSING GETTING RID OF FLEX
WAS THE INTENTION OF FLEX WAS
TO DO SOMETHING I DIDN'T WANT
TO DO WHICH WAS CREATE THIS
WALL OFF A SECTION OF THE CITY
OR DISCOURAGE HOUSING.
WE DIDN'T NEED IT AND THAT WAS
THE INTENTION OF GETTING RID
THAT'S FULLY COMPATIBLE WITH
BUILDING INDUSTRIAL INTO ZONES
IF THAT'S INTENTION WITH THE
WALKABILITY REQUIREMENT THEN WE
CAN FIND A WAY WITH LANGUAGE TO
CARVE IT OUT.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO IMPOSE A
WALKABILITY REQUIREMENT
ABSURDLY TOO INDUSTRIAL LARGELY
INDUSTRIAL AREAS THAT CURRENTLY
INDUSTRIAL AREAS OF THE CITY
THAT DON'T SEEM APPROPRIATE FOR
THAT.
>> YEAH, AGAIN, MY MY READ WAS
THAT CONVERSATION WAS THAT YOU
WANTED TO WE WANTED THE
COMMISSION WANTED TO BRING TO
THOSE GEOGRAPHY'S THE
INTENTIONS THAT WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
WHICH ARE STREET WALLS, MAYBE
SOME VERSION OF ACTIVE FIRST
CLASS MULTIMODAL MULTIMODAL.
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I WAS THAT
THAT WAS THE CONVERSATION I
TAKE THE DIRECTION I'M NOT
TRYING TO RELITIGATE THAT BUT I
IF THAT'S THE CASE THEN I THINK
A TRANSITION DISTRICT HAS TO BE
MUCH BROADER BECAUSE
PRACTICALLY SPEAKING WE NEED TO
BE ABLE TO COMMUNICATE
LANDOWNER'S
WHEN X VERSION
OF THE TRANSITION DISTRICT IS
APPROPRIATE TO APPLY AND WHEN Y
VERSION OF THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT IS APPROPRIATE TO.
SO WHAT I CAN DO IS PROPOSE
SOME LANGUAGE IF THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT THIS IS THIS IS JUST AN
EXERCISE IN SAYING WITH RESPECT
I MEAN WE WHAT WE WANT HERE IS
IN AREAS WHERE IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO ENCOURAGE WALKABILITY AND
SOME OF THESE NODES THESE
DISTRICTS DON'T APPLY I THINK
IN THE WAY THAT I'M HEARING YOU
SAY THAT THEY APPLY FOR EXAMPLE
WE SAY IN HERE WITH RESPECT TO
AND WE JUST TALK ABOUT THEM
TALKING ABOUT HOW WE WANT
ACTIVE SUPPORT REVERSAL ON
ARTERIALS.
>> THAT'S A SUB THAT'S A SUB
ZONE WITHIN A DISTRICT.
MATERIAL IS NOT THE ENTIRE
DISTRICT IN ARTERIALS A SPOT
INSIDE THE DISTRICT RIGHT BELOW
ARTERIAL IS A CORRIDOR AND MOST
OF OUR TRANSITION ZONES ARE IN
CORRIDORS BUT IT'S WHAT I'M
SAYING IS IT IS A PART OF THE
LAND INSIDE OF THE DISTRICT.
RIGHT.
SO SOME INDUSTRIAL AS AN
ARTERIAL I KNOW I'M SAYING THAT
THE DISTRICTS DON'T APPLY IN
THIS RIGID WAY THAT YOU'RE
SUGGESTING.
I'M SAYING THAT WE CAN SAY WE
WANT WALKABLE STREET FRONTAGE
IN THESE PARTS OF TRANSITION
BUT MAYBE WE'RE NOT GOING TO
INCENTIVIZE IT IN OTHER PARTS
AND THE DISTRICT CAN BE AS
FLEXIBLE AS WE NEED IT TO BE.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE TENSION
THAT YOU'RE POINTING OUT I
THINK CAN BE SOLVED WITH
DRAFTING AND WHAT I NEED HELP
WITH IS HOW TO DRAFT.
WELL, GENERALLY IF THERE'S TWO
DIFFERENT TENTS FOR IT THEN
THERE ARE TWO DIFFERENT ZONES.
IT'S NOT TOO DIFFERENT INTENSE
.
IT'S ALREADY ALLOWED LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL.
SO YOU'RE YOU'RE YOU'RE AN
ENGINEER IS BASICALLY ALSO I'M
LOOKING I'M BACK ON THE TABLE.
SO BUILDING FORM CONTEXT
SENSITIVE THAT COULD APPLY A
VERY EQUALLY TO ANY LAND USE I
THINK SHARED ENTRY'S THAT IT'S
PROBABLY MORE APPLICABLE TO
COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL
THINKING THAN MAYBE INDUSTRIAL
BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT FOR SURE
AT I GUESS IT'S POSSIBLE YOU
HAVE OFFICEMATES REDUCED
AUTOMOBILES, A DOMINANT SITE
DESIGN THAT LIKE THAT'S ONE
THAT I THINK THAT THERE MIGHT
BE USES ON S INDUSTRIAL THAT
ARE ACTUALLY VERY AUTOMOBILE
CENTRIC RIGHT NOW A POSTGRAD
AUTO REPAIR WHAT HAVE YOU.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE ABSOLUTE
AGAIN JUST LIKE THESE YOU
ALWAYS SAID WE COULD SEE THOSE
WE REALIZED BUT THEY HAVE TO
FOLLOW OUR FORM BASED STANDARDS
A UNIFIED THEORY.
WELL, THAT'S A BUILDING FORM
STANDARD THAT IS THERE ACROSS
THE DISTRICT.
SO YOU'RE WHAT YOU'RE
SUGGESTING IS PERHAPS THERE'S A
BUILDING FORM THAT I'M TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND.
THERE'S BUILDING FORM THAT I
THINK IS KIND OF WHY ORIGINALLY
WE HAD PROVIDED X WAS WE KNEW
THAT THERE MIGHT BE THIS BIG
BUILDING FORMS AND DEVELOPMENTS
,MILES, FOR DIFFERENT
CATEGORIES OF USES.
THE PURPOSE OF FLUX IS PRESENT
OPPORTUNITIES FOR AFFORDABLE I
MEAN IT WAS ENTIRELY IN THE
DISTRICT SO I'M HAPPY TO HELP
WITH LANGUAGE.
I JUST WANT A LITTLE DIRECTION
ON WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO
ACCOMPLISH AND YOU'RE POINTING
OUT INCORRECTLY THAT WE MAY NOT
WANT REDUCED AUTOMOTIVE
DOMINANCE.
I DESIGN AND SELL INDUSTRIAL
AND I THINK THERE ARE A HANDFUL
OF THERE'S A HANDFUL
OF STATEMENTS IN HERE THAT WE
NEED TO MAKE SURE IN OUR
DRAFTING APPLY TO THE PARTS
OF TRANSITION THAT WE THINK
THEY'RE APPROPRIATE TO APPLY TO
AND NOT TO THE PARTS THAT WE
DON'T.
AND I WAS HOPING THAT BY ADDING
RELATIVELY SMALL SLICES OF THE
CITY TO TRANSITION THAT WE
COULD ACCOMMODATE IT IN IN WITH
SOME HOPEFULLY MINOR TWEAKS TO
IT MAYBE.
YEAH, WELL I'M HAPPY TO PROPOSE
CHANGES.
>> SORRY I WANTED TO GET BACK
TO KIND OF WHAT COMMISSIONER
MILLS AND I WERE COMMENTING
ABOUT IF WE WE'VE ALREADY
AGREED TO COLLAPSE FLECK'S THAT
MEANS THE TWO CATEGORIES
OF PERMITTED USES THAT AREN'T
THAT ARE NOT OR THAT'S GONE
FROM FLAKS WOULD BE ARMED
WAREHOUSE.
THE QUESTION REALLY I THINK FOR
ME IS LIKE LESS ABOUT THE
BUILDING FORM THAT PERMITTED
USE COMPONENTS OF ARE WE JUST
GOOD WITH JUST LIMITING R&D IN
WAREHOUSE FROM LIKE THE
PERMITTED USE DISTRICTS
EVERYWHERE.
>> WE DON'T CALL ON EVERY
SINGLE WE'RE SAYING IN HERE
THAT WE'RE WE'RE ALLOWING LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AND TRANSITION.
WE ALREADY DID AND WE'VE GOT I
DON'T THINK WE DO WE NEED TO
CALL OUT I MEAN THERE'S A
MILLION DIFFERENT THINGS IN
HERE I I'M NOT SURE WE NEED TO
CALL IT ON THE PLAN.
WHAT'S WE SAY LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
IS NOT SUFFICIENT.
>> WE'VE DISTINGUISHED THE
WAREHOUSING IN INDUSTRIAL I
GUESS IT COULD BE YEAH I
SUPPOSE THE QUESTION IS ARE WE
COOL WITH THE EXAMPLE THAT WE
HEARD EARLIER TONIGHT ABOUT THE
GLASSMAKER IN THE TRANSITION?
>> IT'S ALL RIGHT.
I THINK ABOUT IT IN SO LONG IS
THAT THEY'RE SUBJECT TO
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
>> I GUESS I'M NOT REALLY ALL
THAT CONCERNED YOU'RE SAYING
THAT LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ALREADY
ENCAPSULATES R&D WAREHOUSING
THAT I THINK WAREHOUSING WAS
PULLED OUT IF I COULD GUESS
BECAUSE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL COULD
BE FOR EXAMPLE LIKE A 3D
PRINTING SHOP OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT AND THAT COULD FIT IN BUT
A WAREHOUSE FOR EXAMPLE LIKE IF
YOU LOOK AT OUR TRANSITION
CORRIDORS LIKE THOSE ARE
USUALLY MASS IV ONE STORY KIND
OF SPRAWLING BUILDINGS THAT I
DON'T THINK THAT THE INTENT AND
SO I THINK THAT WAS PROBABLY
PULLED OUT ORIGINALLY AND FLEX
OH SO IT WAS SO EVEN PRIOR TO
THE COLLAPSING AFLEX IT WAS
EXTRICATED NO, I'M JUST SAYING
I THINK THAT'S WHY THERE'S A
DISTINCTION.
>> I THINK THAT'S WHY THEY HAVE
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND WAREHOUSE
BECAUSE WAREHOUSE IS SUCH A
DISTINCT KIND OF BUILDING
FORMAT THAT USUALLY ONLY FITS
WELL.
I MEAN THAT'S REAL AREAS.
I DON'T I DON'T THINK I AGREE
WITH MR. ADAMS.
I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO LIST
EVERY BUT I I I THINK THAT
MAYBE BROADENING THE LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL TO INCLUDE OFFICE OR
RESEARCH JUST I FEEL LIKE IT'S
MISSING ONE MORE CATEGORY
PROBABLY YEAH.
THE AND ULTIMATELY WE KIND
OF TALK ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF HAVING ECONOMIC
DIVERSIFICATION IN THE
CONSIDERATION OF WHAT THAT
MEANS OVERALL RELEASE I THINK
I'VE MENTIONED THAT PAST
APPEARS THAT WE'VE COLLECTED
FACTS WHICH I'M OK WITH
CONCEPTUALLY SPEAKING I JUST
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
DIDN'T JUST LOSE KIND OF THE
CONCEPTS BEHIND WHAT THAT WAS
GOING TO BE.
SO BUT COMMERCIAL LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL I THINK OUR
ENCAPSULATING I THINK THAT'S
COMMISSIONER MILLS, CORRECT ME
IF I'M WRONG.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT.
IT'S LIKE HEY, WE'RE GETTING
RID OF FLEX.
SHOULDN'T WE TAKE A LOOK AT
WHAT WE LOST AND FLEX MAKE SURE
THAT IS MENTIONED?
>> WELL, YEAH, I JUST PULLED UP
THE UDC LIGHT MANUFACTURING.
>> THERE'S A NUMBER OF THINGS.
I MEAN AGAIN MAYBE COAL AND
COKE DEALER WE DON'T NEED TO
HAVE ANY MORE I DON'T BUT LIKE
FOOD AND BEVERAGE MANUFACTURING
LIKE DO YOU WANT THAT ON MILLER
LIKE ZINGERMAN'S BAKERY AND IF
THIS IS THE PLACE THIS IS THE
DISTRICT WE'RE SUPPOSED TO GO
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT HAVING IT IN
LOW DENSITY IN THE SORRY IN THE
LAND USE CATEGORY WHERE IT'S
SUPPOSED TO GO BECAUSE OUR
DISTRICTS I'M JUST TRYING TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE SOME
PLACE AND I'M AND I'M ALSO
THINKING ABOUT AGAIN DESIGN I
GET THAT WE CAN DIFFERENTIATE
BETWEEN THEM AND HAVING DESIGN
STANDARD FOR RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING THAT MIGHT GO ON S
INDUSTRIAL LIKE HOPEFULLY YOU
DO WANT THAT TO LOOK WALKABLE,
TO BE MORE WALKABLE BUT THEN IF
IT'S NEXT TO THINGS THAT ARE
NOT I'M JUST TRYING TO THINK
LIKE AGAIN THERE'S NOTHING THAT
WE DON'T HAVE SIDEWALKS TO
NOWHERE AND IT'S NOT A GREAT
EXPERIENCE IF IT'S NOT
CONTINUOUS.
SO I'M THINKING ABOUT HOW WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THOSE
STANDARDS ARE IN A DISTRICT
THAT CAN HAVE LOTS AND LOTS
OF THINGS WHICH THERE CAN BE
BENEFITS IN THAT I JUST DON'T I
DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO THAT.
>> THEN THERE'S LOTS OF THINGS
THAT ARE WITH THE SO WHAT I'M
HEARING IS WE NEED TO BROADEN
TRANSITION DISTRICT TO PROVIDE
MORE TYPES OF FORM THAT ARE
MORE INCLUSIVE OF EVERYTHING
FROM HIGH RISE TO PERHAPS
EXPLICITLY AUTOMOTIVE DEPENDENT
DEVELOPMENT.
>> SO ONE THING IS WITH THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT IS I DON'T
KNOW WHY WE WOULD I'VE WALKED
DOWN SOUTH INDUSTRIAL MANY
TIMES IT'S VERY WALKABLE BUT
THERE NEEDS TO BE A SIDEWALK
AND NOT A POLE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE SIDEWALK.
>> THERE NEEDS TO BE SIDEWALKS
ALONG THAT.
>> I DON'T THINK WE'RE
RESTRICTING ANYTHING I SAYING
YES, IT'S STILL ALSO NEEDS TO
BE WALKABLE BECAUSE IF I'M
GOING TO GO RENT A CAR I'M
CHANCES ARE I'M NOT GOING TO
HAVE A CAR TO DRIVE TO THE CAR
RENTAL.
THAT'S NOT ENTIRELY TRUE.
BUT YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
IT'S A I THINK WE CAN USE THOSE
REDUCED AUTOMOBILE DOMINANT
SITE DESIGN STILL IN A PLACE
FOR FOR AN INDUSTRY THAT
TRADITIONALLY MIGHT NOT HAVE
SIDEWALKS IN FRONT.
BUT I DON'T THINK WE I DON'T
THINK IT'S BAD TO HAVE
SIDEWALKS IN FRONT OR TO HAVE
THE STREET WELL CLOSE OR HAVE A
GOOD WALK IN EXPERIENCE LIKE
DON'T THINK THAT'S A PROBLEM TO
HAVE.
>> I AGREE WITH THAT SENTIMENT
.
THERE'S NO REASON TO RIGHT.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, ARBOR'S WELL
THE SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN BUILDING
THAT WALKED AROUND THERE A LOT
IT'S ACTUALLY
NICE TO WALK
AROUND THERE.
>> BUT THAT IS A IT'S YOU
WOULDN'T THINK OF IT AS A
TRADITIONAL PEDESTRIAN NICE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE BUT I
THINK IT'S NOT PROBLEMATIC TO
MAKE IT MORE PEDESTRIAN.
>> IS THAT THE SOLUTION?
I MEAN MEANING THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT YOU MAY COME BACK
AND YOU'VE MADE THIS POINT A
FEW TIMES DISTRICTS THAT ARE
CREATED BY THE PLAN MAY NEED TO
HAVE THERE MAY NEED TO BE
MULTIPLE VERSIONS, MULTIPLE
FLAVORS MINIMIZE PARKING FOR S
INDUSTRIAL MIGHT LOOK DIFFERENT
AND MINIMIZE PARKING FOR A
DIFFERENT THE DIFFERENT
SECTIONS OF THE CITY THAT USE
TRANSITION THIS MAYBE IN OTHER
WORDS THIS IS A TENSION YOU'RE
POINTING OUT THAT FEELS REAL TO
ME BUT IT'S IT BECOMES REAL
WHEN WE ACTUALLY SIT DOWN AND
MAKE THE ZONING MAP AND TO THE
EXTENT THAT IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE ON THE PAGE OF THE PLAN,
I THINK I'M HOPING THAT WE CAN
DRAFT IT SO THAT DOES BUT I
DON'T COME TO HAVING TROUBLE
RIGHT NOW AT THE TABLE DOING IT
BECAUSE THAT FAIR I THINK WE
ALL ARE OK.
RIGHT.
SO SO IS THAT A CORRECT IS DID
BRETT SUMMARIZE THAT CORRECTLY
TO BROADEN MORE TYPES
OF PERFORM?
WELL IT SEEMS LIKE NO THERE'S
TWO THINGS SEEMING TO HAPPEN.
SO BRETT'S WAY OF SAYING
BROADEN IT AND INCLUDE ALL
OF THIS STUFF WHICH I'M NOT
SURE HOW THAT WOULD ACTUALLY
WORK BUT IT ISN'T WHAT I'M
TRAINED IN.
THAT'S ONE WAY TO GO IN ORDER
TO AVOID WHAT PEOPLE WERE
SAYING EARLIER COMMENT
PARTITIONING OR OFFERING
SEVERAL VERSIONS OF TRANSITION.
>> SO YOU HAVE TO GO ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER.
YOU EITHER HAVE TO CREATE MORE
THAN ONE VERSION OF TRANSITION
,ONE IN WHICH THINGS ARE
DISTINCTLY ALLOWED THAT REALLY
AREN'T THAT AREN'T AS
COMPATIBLE WITH A MAJORITY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT THAT HAS
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND
COMMERCIAL BUT NOT A BUS YARD
ON IT.
SO IF YOU SO I MEAN SO I DON'T
THINK THERE'S I THINK WE HAVE
TO DO ONE OR THE OTHER.
I THINK WE TO HAVE MORE THAN
ONE VERSION OF TRANSITION OR WE
HAVE TO HAVE ONE VERY BROAD
TRANSITION WHICH THEN IS VERY
DIFFICULT TO I MEAN WELL MAYBE
IT WOULDN'T BE I MEAN I DON'T
KNOW MAYBE ALL OF THAT CAN
EASILY BE DONE IN ZONING OR YOU
KNOW, THE IDEA OF CONTEXT,
SPECIFICITY DOES THE WORK
OF YEAH.
IN THIS CONTEXT WE'VE GOT A LOT
OF APARTMENTS HERE AND SO YOU
KNOW, I DON'T BUT WHAT I DON'T
WANT TO HAVE HAPPEN IS WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN DC ONE, WHICH IS
THINGS LIKE GROCERY STORES ARE
SAYING WE WANT TO MODIFY ONE
THING AND WE'RE SAYING NO, YOU
HAVE TO DO THESE FORM STANDARDS
AND THEN THEY'RE LIKE WELL THEN
WE WON'T HAVE A GROCERY STORE
ANYMORE AND THAT'S NOT
DESIRABLE BECAUSE NONE OF US
WANTS TO HAVE TO DRIVE TO
PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP TO BUY AN
ORANGE.
SO I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CONCERN ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS IF
THERE'S A FORM TYPOLOGY THAT
ISN'T REALLY CONSISTENT WITH
THE USES THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PACK INTO TRANSITION.
SO I CAN SEE TWO VERSIONS
OF TRANSITION HOWEVER MANY YOU
WANT.
NO, I I'M NOT SURE AND I CAN I
CAN IMAGINE THAT YOU GUYS COULD
WORK OUT THE BROAD CONTEXT
SPECIFIC.
I CAN IMAGINE YOU GUYS COULD DO
IT EITHER WAY BUT OUT A LOT
OF USERS ALREADY SELF LIMITING
SO WE USE ITSELF GOING TO SORT
OF DECIDE LIKE EVEN IF IT'S OWN
TRANSITION YOU MIGHT NOT BE
ABLE TO DO WHAT YOU WANT TO DO
BECAUSE THE PERSON DOESN'T
SUPPORT IT.
THERE'S NOT INFRASTRUCTURE THAT
SUPPORT NOT SORRY DID NOT MEAN
TO SAY INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE
SPACE TO TURN A A 18 WHEELER
TRACTOR TRAILER AROUND IT AND
SO YOU'RE NOT GOING TO PUT THAT
THERE LIKE OUR CHURCH IS NOW
WAS IN FLUX BUT NOW I SUSPECT
WE WILL EITHER GO TO TRANSITION
OR HUB AND WE'RE A BIG
WAREHOUSE.
IT'S A TWENTY SIX THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT WAREHOUSE ON THREE
POINT TWO ACRES AND WE HAVE
ABOUT ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
UNITS OF HOUSING ACROSS THE
STREET.
WE HAVE A THIRTY FOOT SET BACK
WITH A SIDEWALK AND IT'S VERY
WALKABLE.
PEOPLE WALK ALL THROUGH THE
CHURCH.
WE HAVE A PLAYGROUND IN THE
BACK.
WE HAVE A BALL COURT RIGHT
THERE AS WELL IN A GINORMOUS
PARKING LOT.
AND SO BUT BECAUSE IT'S SO FAR
BACK WHAT WE STARTED ON WITH
MR. LEONARD WAS THE THE STREET
THE STREET MALL.
BUT YOU WERE TRYING TO DESIGN A
STREET WALL WITH THESE HOUSES
AND SO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT BRING
OUR CHURCH BUILDING CLOSER TO
THE SIDEWALK?
I WOULD LOVE TO DO THAT BECAUSE
IT WOULD BE A MORE ACTIVE USE
BUT WE HAD THESE SETBACKS FROM
NINETEEN SEVENTY SEVEN THAT PUT
US FIFTY FEET FROM THE STREET.
SO I FEEL LIKE THE USE THAT'S
GOING TO COME IN IS ALSO GOING
TO BE SELF LIMITING SO WE KNOW
KNOW IT OURSELVES MAYBE ANOTHER
SENSE OF GETTING RID OF THE
FLECK'S DISTRICT WAS THE
CONCERN THAT IT WAS WRITTEN IN
SUCH A WAY IT WAS GOING TO KEEP
OUT HOUSING WHEN THERE COULD BE
HOUSING PUT INTO THOSE
DISTRICTS.
BUT WHAT MR. LEONARD IS
POINTING OUT AS WELL THEN IF IF
YOU GO THE OTHER WAY NOW WE'RE
GOING TO LET ANYTHING IT WASN'T
A FLECK'S DISTRICT COULD BE IN
ANY ANY PLACE IN A TRANSITION
DISTRICT WHICH MEANS WHICH I
DON'T THINK FOLKS WERE
CONTEMPLATING A HUNDRED PERCENT
CONTEMPLATED IT BECAUSE IT
ALREADY ALLOWED IT IT ALLOWED
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
AND THE OTHER THING THAT I KEPT
THINKING ABOUT WAS I LIVE
REALLY CLOSE TO THE PARTS
OF NORTH MAINE THAT ARE ZONED
INDUSTRIAL AND THEY'RE
SURROUNDED BY PARKLAND.
THEY BORDER RESIDENTIAL, SOUTH
INDUSTRIAL DOES AS WELL.
>> SO IT'S THE IDEA THAT
THERE'S THIS AREA OF THE CITY
WHERE THESE NOXIOUS USES CAN
JUST GO AND CREATE, YOU KNOW,
SOUND AND LIKE NUISANCES THAT
THAT'S NOT THAT'S NOT THE CASE.
WE HAVE WE ALREADY ALLOWED
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL INTO THE
TRANSITION AND IT FELT
REDUNDANT AND THE PURPOSE
OF DIDN'T FEEL IMPORTANT LIKE
WE DON'T SO THEN I'M NOT BUT
I'M CONFUSED BY WHY YOU'RE
OBJECTING TO THAT.
THERE WAS A TYPOLOGY THAT WENT
ALONG WITH THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT THAT YOU WEREN'T
ENVISIONING BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
FEEL LIKE A TENSION THAT WE
NEED.
WE WE CAN ADDRESS THE TENSION
THAT I THINK I HEAR STUFF
POINTING OUT I THINK IS
PROPERLY ADDRESSED IN THE
ZONING IF AND BY PROPERLY
ADDRESSED I MEAN WILL BECOME
MORE CLEAR ONCE.
ALL RIGHT.
I CAN'T DRAFT THE ZONING TO
WORK HERE.
>> I CAN'T DO IT.
SO I NEED TO DO TWO TRANSITIONS
BECAUSE MUST I DO TO STOP
INDUSTRIAL WON'T MAKE ANY SENSE
AND THERE'S GOING TO BE A BUNCH
OF NONCONFORMING STUFF IN IT
THAT'S BUT I'M NOT THERE YET IN
TERMS OF MY LEVEL
OF GRANULARITY.
I'M LOOKING AT A GUIDANCE
DOCUMENT THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
HIGH LEVEL AND I FEEL LIKE I
CAN I CAN DRAFT THE CHANGES THE
WAY TRANSITIONS DESCRIBED TO
AVOID A PROBLEM WITH THE WAY
TRANSITIONS CURRENTLY WORK TO
ACCOMMODATE THE CHANGE WE MADE
LAST WEEK.
THAT'S WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE TO
ME THEN INSTEAD OF TONIGHT
TRYING TO COME UP WITH A
REPLACEMENT THAT WE BROUGHT IN
AND THEN WHEN WE GET TO
SOMETHING THAT WE UNDERSTAND
THAT TRANSITION MIGHT BE MORE
THAN ONE ZONE, IS THAT WHAT I'M
HEARING?
WELL, I I DON'T ACTUALLY THINK
THAT'S NECESSARILY THE CASE.
>> I ACTUALLY THINK ME AND
COMMISSIONER MITCHELL'S
CONCERNS ARE ASSUAGED WITH THE
OVERARCHING CATEGORY OF LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL THAT AND THEN ALSO I
THINK COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY'S
THE ONE THAT POINTED OUT
WHETHER THAT LIKE THE BUILDING
FORMS SHOULD STILL BE EVEN IF
IT IS GOING TO BE IN OUR D OR A
GLASSBLOWING YOU KNOW, LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL USE THAT SHOULD
STILL HAVE SOME FORM OF LIKE
PEDESTRIAN MOBILITY.
SO I DON'T ACTUALLY THINK THAT
WE NEED TO MAKE ANY CHANGES TO
ONE ELEVEN.
I ALSO THINK IT'S A TYPICAL
TRANSITION DISTRICT BUILDING
TYPES PRIVACY IS NOT AN
EXHAUSTIVE LIST.
RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK IT IS PROVIDES A
LOT OF FLEXIBILITY IN THAT
RESPECT.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW THAT ANY
THING NEEDS TO BE CHANGED.
MY CONCERN IS ABOUT FLUX
DISTRICT BEING COLLAPSES.
>> I HAVE NO CONCERNS AT THIS
POINT AND I THINK I DID HEAR
FROM KOSMIDIS WAS THAT YOU THAT
HAD SAID THAT MAYBE THERE IS
TWO TYPES OF TRANSITION
DISTRICTS BUT AGAIN, I DON'T
NECESSARILY THINK THAT'S THE
CASE.
ALL I'M SAYING IS THAT I'M
HEARING TWO DIFFERENT WAYS WE
CAN APPROACH AND I THINK THE
IDEA I THINK THE WAY YOU PUT
IT, MICHEL, IS PERFECTLY
CONSISTENT THAT WE'RE GOING TO
BROADEN NOW AND WHEN WE GET TO
ZONING WE'LL FIGURE OUT IF
BROAD WORKS WORKS BECAUSE THE
IS OUR SELF LIMITING OR IF
THERE NEEDS TO BE MORE CONTROL.
BUT WE WANT TO BE MINDFUL
OF NOT IMPOSING TYPOLOGIES ON
THINGS THAT CAN'T FIT THEM AND
THEN MAKING THEM UNABLE TO MAKE
ANY CHANGES TO THEMSELVES.
>> OK, AND CAN I JUST ASK FOR
CLARIFICATION ON A POINT THAT I
THINK IS CLEAR BUT IF IT CAME
UP SO I NEED TO CLARIFY IT SO
THE LIST OF PRIMARY USERS
INCLUDES OFFICE THE FACT THAT
OFFICE IS A USE IN TRANSITION
DOES NOT MEAN THAT ALL OF THE
THINGS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
PERMITTED IN AN OFFICE ZONE
UNDER CURRENT ZONING WOULD BE
PERMITTED IN TRANSITION.
>> IS THAT CORRECT OR NOT
CORRECT?
MR.
IT IS ULTIMATELY YOUR AND
THE COUNCIL'S DISCRETION.
I MEAN I THINK OF OFFICERS AS
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A NEW PLAN
I DON'T THINK WE'RE HAVING
WE'RE INTENDING THAT MUCH
FIDELITY TO OUR OLD DEFINITIONS
ARRANGEMENT AND ASSEMBLAGE
OF USES UNDER THOSE DISTRICTS.
BUT I DON'T I AS I WOULD TELL
ANYBODY I WOULDN'T I WOULD
NEVER GUARANTEE THAT THIS BODY
AND THE COUNCIL DON'T FIND SOME
SIMILARITY TO THE
FOREIGN
OFFICE FRAMEWORK IN DEFINING
THAT.
>> OK, THE REASON IT CAME UP
AND I THINK THIS IS A
REASONABLE CONCERN IS THAT AM I
CORRECT OR NOT THAT IS TIARA'S
ARE OK IN OFFICE I HAVE TO LIVE
BUT GENERALLY WE ALLOW THEM
WHERE HOTELS ARE AS A PERMITTED
USE AND IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES WE
HAVE MORE RESTRICTIONS.
SO SINCE TRANSITION IS A
RESIDENTIAL ZONE WE WOULD HAVE
RESTRICTIONS ON DETERMINE IT'S
A ZONE THAT INCLUDES CITY.
SO WE DO WE HAVE NOT GOT INTO
THAT GRANULARITY OF THE HOTELS
INCLUDED IN THE USES IN THE
TRANSITION ZONE AND IF THEY ARE
I THINK SHORT TERM RENTALS
WOULD BE TOTALLY APPROPRIATE
THERE.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHY WOULD YOU
ALLOW HOTEL BUT NOT A SHORT
TERM RENT?
>> WELL I GUESS THAT WE DON'T
WANT TO ARGUE THAT AT TEN FIFTY
FOUR BUT I THINK THAT WE ARE
ASKING WE ARE WE ARE PRESENTING
THIS PLAN AS HAVING GOALS
AROUND AFFORDABILITY ISN'T WHAT
IS AFFORDABLE.
>> YEAH.
AFFORDABILITY AND THERE ARE
THINGS THAT I THINK RESIDENTS
ARE WILLING TO GIVE ON IF THE
GOAL IS AFFORDABILITY BUT IF
THE GOAL IS COMMERCIAL PROFIT
IN THE FORM OF AN INVESTOR
BECAUSE THEIR EXPERIENCES WITH
STARS ARE NOT THE SAME AS THEIR
EXPERIENCES WITH HOTELS, STARS
CAN BE PARTY HOUSES.
YOU KNOW ONE GETS A FAIR NUMBER
OF CALLS FROM CONSTITUENTS AND
THERE IS A SENSITIVITY AS WE'VE
HEARD TONIGHT AROUND THIS PLAN
SIMPLY CREATING WEALTH FOR, YOU
KNOW, DEVELOPERS WITHOUT REALLY
CREATING HOMES FOR PEOPLE AND
SO I THINK THAT THERE WOULD
THERE WOULD BE MORE RESISTANCE
TO THE TRANSITION DISTRICT OR
TO ITS TO ITS GOOD THINGS IF
THERE WEREN'T ASSURANCE AND
MAYBE THIS ISN'T THE
APPROPRIATE PLACE MAYBE THAT
COMES IN ZONING BUT AND IT
COMES BECAUSE THE THE THE THE
THE GOALS OF THE PLAN AND
EVERYTHING I THINK COULD BE
READ TO SAY IT'S NOT CONSISTENT
WITH ALLOWING ASTERS IN-TRANSIT
IN ZONES JUST AS WE DON'T ALLOW
ANY USE TO BE USED AS SDR
BECAUSE WHEN WE WHEN WE I'M
QUOTING A STAFF MEMBER HERE
WHO'S NOT PRESENT ON COUNCIL
LEGALIZED OR I DON'T KNOW
ALLOWED TO USE IT WAS WITH AN
EXPLICIT PURPOSE OF GENITAL
DENSITY INCREASING HOUSING.
AND SO TO YOU IF IF YOU LET
THEM USE DISASTERS THAT'S HOW
THEY WILL BE USED AND SO THEY
WOULD NEVER BE SOMEONE'S, YOU
KNOW, MOTHER IN LAW APARTMENT
OR WHATEVER.
AND SO I THINK THAT SAME LOGIC
I CAN I CAN SEE THAT SAME LOGIC
APPLIED HERE THAT THE STAR IS A
REALLY IT'S A VERY SEDUCTIVE
USE.
IT'S A VERY IT'S A VERY PRIVATE
INTENSIVE USE AND IT WOULD IT
COULD TAKE OVER AND IT WOULD BE
I THINK IT WOULD BE UPSETTING
TO MANY PEOPLE IF I WERE IN
TRANSITION DISTRICTS DIDN'T
ACCOMPLISH GREATER MULTI-FAMILY
HOUSING BUT JUST ACCOMPLISHED
LOUDER PARTIES ON THE WEEKENDS
AND MORE POSSIBILITIES FOR THAT
AND BEING REALLY, YOU KNOW,
GRAPHIC.
BUT IT'S WHAT I HEARD FROM SOME
COMMENTARY AND I FEEL LIKE I
NEED TO BRING IT.
I HEAR YOUR POINTS BUT WE DON'T
EVER TALK ABOUT SHORT TERM
RENTALS ANYWHERE IN THE PLAN.
SO I IS SUGGESTING THAT WE TRY
TO INSERT THAT LANGUAGE BECAUSE
THAT FEELS LIKE SOMETHING THAT
WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT IN
ZONING.
>> I DO AGREE AND ALL I'M
SAYING IS THAT I THINK IF YOU
KNOW IF YOU CAN ARTICULATE AND
I KNOW THERE'S NO I MEAN YEAH,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO WE'RE NOT
GOING TO RENKIN WE'RE NOT GOING
TO WRITE REGULATIONS FOR
STARTERS WE ALREADY HAVE THEM
BUT THE ONES THAT WE HAVE
DEPENDING ON HOW WE TREAT THIS
IDEA OF HOTELS COULD BE HERE.
I DIDN'T THINK ABOUT HOTELS
OFFICES.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO TO BE
TRUE TO THE GOALS OF THE PLAN.
WHEN WE COME TO THINK ABOUT
THAT QUESTION WHEN WE HIT
ZONING BECAUSE THERE THERE
MIGHT BE A FEELING OF BAIT AND
SWITCH BUT THERE'S NOT THAT
THERE'S NOT A REVISION TO THIS
THIS TEXT HERE THAT YOU'RE
PUTTING TO THIS QUESTION I WAS
ASKING FOR A CLARIFICATION AND
THE OTHER INFORMATION THAT I
GOT WAS TBD.
YEAH.
AND COULD BE KIND OF DEPENDS
COULD BE SO THAT'S OK WITH ME
BECAUSE I CAN MAKE AN ARGUMENT
THAT GIVEN THE INTENT THE PLAN
WE COULD HAVE A YOU KNOW, A
VERY GOOD AND LOGICAL
DISCUSSION WHERE WE DECIDED NOT
TO PERMIT THEM OR TO PERMIT
SOME YOU KNOW, TO LIMIT THE
NUMBERS.
THERE ARE MANY WAYS THAT ONE
COULD GO THERE CARDNO WOULD
HAVE BEEN BETTER BUT I DON'T
THINK HARTONO IS APPROPRIATE
FOR THIS MOMENT IN THE PROCESS
BUT I NEEDED TO RAISE THIS AS
AN ISSUE BECAUSE IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT WE THAT THE PLAN
IS GENUINELY WAIT.
>> I DON'T WANT TO FEEL THAT
I'M I'M JUST TOO TIRED.
THANKS.
THAT WAS JUST NEEDED TO GO TO
TRANSITION.
OH, ALL RIGHT.
I JUST WANT IS ANYONE ELSE IN
SUPPORT OF ELIMINATING THE
GRAPHIC ON PAGE 111 LIKE WE DID
FOR RESIDENTIAL?
I FIND IT TO BE PROBLEMATIC.
I THINK THAT WOULD PROBABLY BE
GREAT.
>> YEAH.
YEAH I'M DONE.
DID I MISS DID ANYONE SUGGEST
ADDING IN THE PRIMARY USES LIST
ADDING SOMETHING ABOUT MIXED
USE APARTMENT BUILDINGS OR ARE
JUST AS MIXED USE STOREFRONT
WHICH I MAYBE THAT SHOULD BE
REVISED TO SAY MIXED USE MIXED
USE BUILDING?
SURE I'M GOOD WITH ANY
OBJECTIONS AND WE'LL TALK ABOUT
ADDING A HIGH-RISE TO START
DOING NEW BUSINESS 11 SO SO
BUSARI MICHELLE DID I DO YOU
WANT ME TO REPEAT ALL THAT SO I
CAN CHANGE I CAN CHANGE MAKES
YOU STOREFRONT TO MIX USE
BUILDING BUT DID YOU SAY
SOMETHING BEFORE JUST TO STRIKE
THE ILLUSTRATION WHAT YOU
ALREADY WERE GOING TO DO.
>> THANKS.
IT ALSO STRIKES ME THIS IN THE
COMMENTS THE SMALL CONDO
BUILDING IS HERE THAT JUST
FEELS LIKE A WEIRD TYPOLOGY
BECAUSE CONDOS LEGAL
DESIGNATION.
>> RIGHT.
NOT A BUILDING TYPE.
RIGHT.
AND IF IT SMELLED LIKE SHOULD
THIS ACTUALLY BE IN RESIDENTIAL
,I WASN'T QUITE SURE WHAT
EXACTLY WHAT WE MEAN WHAT DO WE
MEAN BETWEEN CONDO AND
APARTMENT AND YEAH, WE SHOULD
PROBABLY JUST STICK TO THE
TYPOLOGY BECAUSE CONDO IS
OWNERSHIP.
>> YEAH.
OK SO THANK YOU AND SOUNDS
GOOD.
>> LET'S MOVE ON TO ANOTHER
UPSCALE CONDO SO I JUST HAVE A
A VERY SIMPLE QUESTION WHICH IS
THIS THE INTERSECTION OF THE
LAND USE MAP TO THE D.A. THE
DDA IS POTENTIALLY EXPANDING
ITS BOUNDARY AND IS BECAUSE
CURRENTLY ALMOST EVERYTHING
THAT'S IN THE DDA IS ZONED D
ONE OR TWO.
SO WHAT IS THE OVERLAY ONCE THE
DENHA EXPANDS, DOES IT JUST
PICK UP HUB HUB PICK UP D ONE
AND TWO CAN WE JUST MAKE
EVERYTHING HERE TAKE ONE
.
SO I THINK YOU FOLLOWED WHERE
THE HUB THE HUB LARGELY MATCHES
THEIR PROPOSED EXPANSION.
>> OK THAT'S THAT'S A GOOD
STARTING POINT AND THEN I THINK
WE'RE LOOKING AT SOME THINGS TO
THE NORTH THAT AREN'T SO SO
THEN THAT WOULD ALLOW US TO
EXPAND D TO INTO HUB WELL AGAIN
YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT OUR
CURRENT ZONING.
WE MIGHT NOT BE TOO IT MIGHT BE
H TWO.
>> OK ALL RIGHT BUT YES IT
COULD BE IF WE HAD NEVER ONE TO
FRAMEWORK YES OK ALL RIGHT
GREAT.
THAT WAS MY T TOO WOULD
PROBABLY BE LESS DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL THAN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT AS CURRENTLY DRAFTED.
OK AND THEN WHEN THE FIVE
CORNERS AGAIN IS THAT GOING TO
GET PICKED UP TO THE DAY THAT
IS THE AREA THAT THEY'RE
LOOKING AT AS WELL.
OK, I DON'T KNOW IF IT I DON'T
KNOW WOULD INCLUDE THAT
BUILDING BUT THAT COMMERCIAL
AREA THAT'S I THINK ALL I'M
THINKING ABOUT HERE IS
NONCONFORMING USE.
RIGHT.
THAT WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE THE
WAY AND MAP THAT WOULD MAKE
SOMETHING THAT'S ALREADY THERE
NONCONFORMING AND SO JUST HOW
ARE WE PICKING THOSE THINGS UP
SO THAT WE DON'T CREATE NEW
NONCONFORMITY AS WE EXPAND THE
MAP?
THE MAP DOESN'T GET IN AND YEAH
,I GUESS WHAT I THAT SHOULD BE
ANY OTHER EDITS TO THE WE LIKE
IT.
I WANT IT CITYWIDE IF WE'RE
GOING BACK TO THE CHART ON PAGE
ONE OR TWO AND PICKING UP IS IT
TOO LATE IN THE NIGHT TO PICK
UP THIS CONFUSING CONVERSATION
OR AN ACTIVE FIRST COMMERCIAL
BOUGERE BECAUSE IT'S HERE IS
IT'S NOT REQUIRED.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE CAN I STILL
CHANGE IT TO PREFER I'M THE
ONLY ONE WHO READS THAT AS A
REQUIREMENT THEN I CAN JUST LET
IT GO.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT'S
CLEAR THAT WE'RE SEEING I THINK
IT PERMITS IF IT SEEMS LIKE
IT'S PERMITTING PEOPLE READING
IT A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT WAYS
AND THAT'S OK.
BUT IF WHAT WAS THE SUGGESTION
PREFERRED PREFERRED FIRST FOR
COMMERCIAL OK, HERE'S A LOOK AT
THIS GREAT THING HERE WE COULD
BE THE PREFERRED OR PERMITTED
OR YEAH.
PERMITTED BUILDING USES RIGHT
IN THE GRAY BOX THE WAY THAT I
WOULD NORMALLY PHRASE THIS
WOULD BE GROUND FOR ACTIVATION
ON ARTERIALS.
SO IT MIGHT NOT NECESSARILY SAY
ACTIVE USE BUT IT'S A GROUND
FLOOR ACTIVATION TO A CERTAIN
EXTENT.
>> SO AND THAT WOULD BE AGAIN
SOMETHING THAT'S ENCOURAGED BUT
NOT REQUIRED.
>> WOULD THAT BE A USE THEN OR
WOULD THAT BE A FORM OF CENTRAL
?
>> I KNOW IT'S A I THINK IT'S
BETTER AS A FORM IF WE'RE NOT
TALKING ABOUT ACTUAL USE.
I THINK THAT'S THE FORM.
YEAH.
AND IT EMPHASIZES THE
ASPIRATION THAT IT'S A SPECIFIC
YEAH EXACTLY.
YEAH.
FIRES STRIKE.
>> SURE.
IS THERE AN INTENTION TO KEEP
THE ILLUSTRATIONS OF STRIKING
THOSE AS WELL TYPE OF 113 114
115 ARE THEY ALL GONE.
>> OH FOR THAT ONE OR THREE IS
GONE RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
ONE TWO THREE DOESN'T REPRESENT
WHAT WE'VE OH THAT'S GREAT.
YES GREAT.
AND SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO ONE
THIRTEEN AND ONE OH YEAH
THIRTEEN FOURTEEN FIFTEEN THOSE
ARE ALL GONE.
I ASSUMED THIRTEEN WAS GONE.
I DON'T PERSONALLY I THINK 14
AND 15 ACTUALLY ILLUSTRATE WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT MUCH BETTER
THAN ANY OF THE OTHER
SITUATIONS IN HERE BUT SO I
DON'T KNOW DO YOU FEEL LIKE
THEY SHOULD BE LOST.
I PRESUME THEY'RE GONE BECAUSE
WE'RE NOT IN THOSE RESTRICTIONS
ON THOSE SUBDISTRICTS YOU OH SO
THE COMMERCIAL SHOPPING CENTER
IN THE RESEARCH ART DON'T HAVE
ANY THEY'RE NOT REFERENCE
ANYWHERE IN THE PLAN SO WE'RE
GETTING RID OF THIS WHOLE
SPREAD.
YEAH LIKE ONE FIFTEEN IS JUST
GONE.
>> WE'RE GETTING RID OF THE
WHOLE SPREAD NOT JUST THE
GRAPHIC BUT BECAUSE IT'S THE
WHOLE PREMISES ON THE DIFFERENT
CHARACTER AREAS WHICH THE
LANGUAGE HAS STRUCK.
SO I DON'T SO WHAT PAGE NUMBERS
ONE AND ONE OK, THERE'S AN
AGREEMENT ON THAT I THINK I
MEAN I READ THAT SECOND
PARAGRAPH STARTING AT HOWEVER
REDEVELOPS THESE AREAS PRESENTS
A CHALLENGE LIKE THAT JUST LIKE
NONE OF THIS STUFF LIKE I MEAN
I LIKE IT'S TRUE BUT I DON'T
KNOW WHAT IT'S ACTUALLY SAYING
ABOUT THE ITSELF.
>> RIGHT.
THERE'S NO REAL SUBSTANCE LIKE
IZUMO IS LIKE A PARAGRAPH THAT
JUST AS WORDS SO PROUD OF YOU
YOU'RE GOING TO GET THIS UNDER
ONE HUNDRED.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
SO YEAH I KNOW WITH A MACHETE
OVER HERE.
>> YEAH YEAH IT'S TRUE IT
DOESN'T PROVIDE ACTUALLY ANY
GUIDANCE IT JUST SAYS IT'S JUST
IT'S JUST LIKE HEY I KNOW WE'LL
NEED STRATEGIES TO JUST LIKE IT
DOESN'T HAVE ANY KIND OF REAL
GUIDANCE SO I WOULD STRIKE ONE
FIFTEEN IN ITS ENTIRETY AND
FOURTEEN I THOUGHT THAT WAS
ALREADY YEAH YEAH YEAH THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT I HESITATE TO
RAISE AND YOU PROBABLY WOULD
LIKE ME TO REALLY HESITATE BUT
IT IS A IT IS A TICK YEAH GO
AHEAD.
A ONE TEN AND ONE TWELVE SO THE
REASONING STATEMENTS THERE IS
STRONG SUPPORT I'M BACK ON ONE
TIME BUT I'M NOT I'M JUST
ILLUSTRATING THAT THERE'S A
PARALLEL THERE'S A STRONG
SUPPORT FOR HIGHER DENSITY
DEVELOPMENT BLAH BLAH BLAH.
HOWEVER SOME RESIDENTS HAVE
EXPRESSED CONCERNS ABOUT NOISE,
OVERCROWDING IN TRAFFIC AND HOW
THEIR STRONG SUPPORT FOR BLAH
BLAH BLAH COMMA THOUGH CONCERNS
REMAIN ABOUT AFFORDABILITY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TO ME THIS
IS A PLACE WHERE THERE'S A
GESTURE AT A PROBLEM OF TRADE
OFFS BUT IT IS JUST SORT
OF PRESENTED IN A DESCRIPTIVE
WAY LIKE THERE'S THIS AND
THERE'S THAT.
>> AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WE TALKED A LOT ABOUT IN THE
EARLY PHASES OF WARMING UP FOR
THE PLAN WAS WE TALKED ABOUT
HOW THE PLAN HAS TO HELP US
MAKE SOME DECIDE ABOUT MAKING
SOME TRADE OFFS ON THESE
THINGS.
>> AND SO I DON'T KNOW IF THE
HUB DISTRICT BECAUSE IT'S MEANT
TO BE A HIGH DENSITY DISTRICT
WE'RE SAYING YEAH, THIS IS
WHERE WE'RE GOING TO GET A
LITTLE BIT MORE IMPERMEABLE
SERVICE AND THERE MIGHT BE
CONCERNS ABOUT THAT.
BUT THAT'S A TRADE OFF WE MAKE
TO SAY HERE'S WHERE DENSITY IS
REALLY APPROPRIATE.
YEAH, OR I DON'T KNOW OR MAYBE
YOU DON'T WANT CONFRONT THAT
HEAD ON.
BUT I THINK THAT IF IF A PLAN
DOESN'T ARTICULATE SOMETHING
ABOUT WE CAN'T HAVE EVERY GOAL
WE ALL THE TIME EVERYWHERE.
RIGHT.
WE CAN'T HAVE EVERYTHING MEET
ALL OF THE BOXES THAT WE CARE
ABOUT.
I THINK THAT I SHOULD SAY THAT
BECAUSE OTHERWISE WE'LL HAVE TO
KEEP SAYING THAT WE CAN LOOK AT
ADDING SOME ADDITIONAL
EMPHASIZING THAT I MEAN I THINK
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING IS THE EASE
OF PLANNING STAFF AND EARLY
BEDTIMES.
>> YEAH, BE SURE AND THEN WE'LL
THROW THAT ON PAGE 113.
WE ALSO SAY MIXED USE STORE
FRONTS WHICH MAY BE MORE
APPROPRIATE IN THE BUT WE MAY
JUST WANT MIXED USE BUILDING
MIX BUILDINGS.
YOU COULD GET ONE THIRD USES
OUT OF MIXED USE.
THE PAKISTANI GOVERNMENT THIS
THIS IS MORE OF A CLERICAL
SITUATION ON BOTH MIXU STORE
STOREFRONTS AND MIXED USE
APARTMENT.
>> OH YEAH.
YEAH.
JUST MAKES THESE BUILDINGS AND
YEAH AND I JUST BROADENED THE
RESIDENTIAL DEFINITION THAT
COULD BE STACKED FLATS ARE A
LOT OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
THIS IS JUST A CLERICAL
SUGGESTION.
I'M IN FAVOR JUST REDUCING
WORDINESS THROUGHOUT.
>> SO WHEN YOU HAVE INTENT WHAT
IS THE REASONING BEHIND IT AND
ASPECTS TO CONSIDER YOU COULD
USE RATIONALE AND
CONSIDERATIONS RIGHT.
JUST JUST TRY TO KEEP IT AS
SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE.
JUST MAKES IT A LITTLE BIT MORE
ACCESSIBLE AS OPPOSED TO REALLY
JUST HAVING LIKE EIGHT WORDS.
>> YEAH I THINK SIMPLE BUT ALSO
LIKE INTENT REASONING ASPECTS
TO CONSIDER LIKE SPLITTING UP
SOME OF THOSE PARAGRAPHS WOULD
BE HELPFUL.
YEP.
JUST YEAH.
BREVETTI COMBINED REDUCE OF IT
SO ANYTHING ELSE ON THE
SUBDISTRICTS SO FAR KIND
OF WHAT I'VE SEEN IS GRAPHIC
ALTERATIONS OF 113 AND THE
REDACTION OF FOURTEEN OR
FIFTEEN.
>> CORRECT.
CORRECT.
COOL.
ALL RIGHT FLUX IS GONE.
OK 160 170 AKST 118 SO I THINK
THIS IS JUST IN REFERENCE TO
THE THREE OTHER CATEGORIES THAT
ARE ON THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
THAT ARE ACTUALLY ZONING BUT
THEY'RE PERCS PUBLIC LAND AND
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SO I THINK IT'S JUST A
REFERENCE TO THESE ADD
CHARACTER TO OUR COMMUNITIES
THAT THERE'S NOT AS MUCH THERE
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY
ZONING FOR THEM.
YEAH, IF WE WANTED TO DO
ANYTHING WE COULD POINT TO THE
PARKS PLAN HERE.
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND THE SCHOOL
DISTRICTS AND YEAH, THERE A
STRATEGIC PLAN FOR THEIR
BUILDINGS.
SO I THINK THOSE THREE THINGS
THEY'RE SORT OF HELP UM SORT
OF CURB THEM AND THEN I THINK
WE'RE DONE OVER IMPLEMENTING
OK, WE'RE GOING TO GET YOU GUYS
READY TO TELL.
I DON'T WANT ONE.
>> I SWEAR TO GET TWENTY
SECONDS.
WE'LL SEE.
>> I'M GOING TO CUT THIS PAGE
FORTY EIGHT.
OH MY GOD.
THAT WAS A MULTIFAMILY TARGET
REFERENCE.
I THINK IT'S A RENTAL IN THE
ORIGINAL DATA IT'S JUST A
CORRECTION.
SO WE JUST FORGOT TO MENTION
THE HOUSING PLAN FOR
MULTIFAMILY TARGETS THAT'S
ACTUALLY HAD REMOVED THAT.
WE I WE TALKED ABOUT THE DATA.
I DON'T I CHECKED THE
CORRECTION LOG.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYTHING.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE IT
GOT THIS LAST BULLET POINT HERE
ON THE LEFT COLUMN THAT GOES ON
TO THE SECOND COLUMN WHERE LIKE
THE HOUSING PLAN, THE MICHIGAN
HOUSING PLANS RENTAL AND OWNER
OCCUPIED UNITS I THINK IN THE
DATA IT JUST NEEDS TO BE
CHECKED.
SO THE FOOTNOTE FIVE I THINK
IT'S SAYING IN THE MICHIGAN
HOUSING PLAN IT'S A RENTAL.
>> YEAH, THERE IS NO SINGLE
FAMILY HOME TARGETS IN THAT
DATA.
IT'S ALL RENTAL.
YEAH.
THAT'S A
I'M GLAD YOU BROUGHT
UP THE PAGE.
>> NO WELL I JUST WANT TO ASK
IF IT MAKES SENSE.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF CONCERN
GOING AROUND THAT WE DON'T HAVE
POPULATION PROJECTIONS TO JUST
BY ANY SORT OF HOUSING TARGETS
OR I MEAN IS THERE ANY WAY TO
JUST CUT SOME OF THIS STUFF SO
THAT WE AREN'T ARGUING ABOUT IT
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T REALLY MAKE
SENSE FOR US TO SAY.
I MEAN THERE HAVE BEEN SLIDES
AND PRESENTATIONS ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, THIS MANY PEOPLE AND BLAH
BLAH BLAH AND PEOPLE UNLESS WE
CAN CLARIFY THAT THEIR CAPACITY
ESTIMATES AND YOU KNOW, NOBODY
MAKES A TARGET OF HOW MANY
PEOPLE YOU KNOW, HOW DO YOU
EVEN FULFILL THAT AND HOW WOULD
YOU MAKE THE JUDGMENT ABOUT
THAT IS CORRECT.
SO THEY'RE ASKING US TO JUSTIFY
WITH HARD DATA SOMETHING THAT
WE SHOULD BE PROMISING.
WELL, I THINK OF IT AS SOME
KIND OF DATA IS IS BASED ON
HISTORY AND A LOT OF WAYS THEY
PUT TOGETHER PROJECTIONS FOR
THE REGION AND THEY DISTRIBUTED
AMONG A LOT OF COMMUNITIES, US
INCLUDED.
AND THAT'S WHERE SORT OF OUR
PROJECTIONS COME FROM.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
COMMISSION AND THE PUBLIC TO
THINK
THAT THIS IS A PLACE
WHERE WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO FIGURE OUT HOW HOW WE WANT
TO TRY TO INFLUENCE THAT
TRAJECTORY RIGHT.
>> AND SO THIS PLAN I THINK IS
PUSHING IT TO SAY COULD WE MAKE
LAND USE DECISIONS THAT MIGHT
PUSH THAT TRAJECTORY UPWARD NOW
IS THAT GOING TO DRASTICALLY
CHANGE?
I DON'T KNOW HONESTLY BUT IT
HAS THE POTENTIAL TO INCREASE
IT OR THAT MIGHT BE MANIFEST BY
JUST INCREASED GROWTH OR IT
MIGHT BE US REALIZING FRANKLY A
LARGER SHARE OF THE REGION'S
GROWTH MIGHT OTHERWISE.
>> YEAH, I TOTALLY AGREE.
IT'S WELL, WE'VE GOT TO GET TO
PUBLIC COMMENT SO LET'S WRAP
THIS UP.
IT'S JUST THAT IT'S BEEN
THERE'S A LOT OF PRESSURE
AROUND THERE NOT BEING A BASIS
IN DATA AND I DO NOT KNOW HOW
TO RESPOND TO THE I THAT IS ONE
OF MY RESPONSES IS THAT THE
DATA ASSUMES A LIMIT.
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S ARTIFICIALLY
LIMITED.
RIGHT.
SO BUT OK, MAYBE THIS IS IT'S
JUST THAT I YOU KNOW, THE
OPPOSITION THERE'S A LOT
OF OPPOSITION I AM GOING TO
CONVEY TO OUR PROJECT TEAM A
LOT OF EDITS THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT HERE.
WE'RE GOING TO SHARE A LOT
OF THE EDITS THAT WE DIDN'T
TALK ABOUT THERE WE ARE GOING
TO DO OUR BEST TO FILTER IT AND
I HOPE THAT YOU FEEL THE
GUMPTION TO TAKE ME TO THE
GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE WHEN
YOU SEE THAT SECOND DRAFT AS TO
WHETHER OR NOT I DID A GOOD JOB
AND UM, NAVIGATING ALL THE
CONVERSATIONS AND FEEDBACK THAT
WE'VE HAD SO FAR, THIS IS JUST
THE NEXT DRAFT.
SO UM SO THANK YOU.
YOU HAVE SPENT A LOT OF WORK
INTO IT AND I'M EXCITED TO GET
TO THIS NEXT STEP.
>> IT'S LIKE A VERY SMALL TASK
TO BE SURE YOU'LL DISPATCH IN A
WEEKEND.
>> OK, THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO INCLUDE
OTHER BUSINESS.
WE'RE GOING TO HEAD ON TO THE
LAST ITEM OF THE AGENDA WHICH
IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE OR
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON THE PHONE OR USE A
RAISE AND FEATURE AND ZOOM FOR
PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVENTY
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
INTERMEETING EIGHTY NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TO
DO SIX.
>> SO THESE FOUR IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZOOM IF AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS, MR.
WESTFALL, THANK YOU.
NOT TO BELABOR THE NIGHT ANY
LONGER BUT I COULDN'T RESIST.
THANKS FOR A DISCUSSION
CARQUEST WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE
OR FIVE CHARTER PLACE I'VE GOT
TO SAY THAT AT THE TOP I THINK
ALLOWING THE FLEXIBILITY TO GO
TO HIGH RISES IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT IS HUGE AND THAT'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF WHERE THE
HOUSING WILL GO.
I HOPE THAT THAT WASN'T TAKEN
TO MEAN THAT IT COULD ONLY RISE
TO HUB.
THERE ARE LARGE BLOBS
OF TRANSITION RIGHT NOW LIKE IN
LOWERTOWN WITHOUT A HUB WHICH
SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO GET, YOU
KNOW, MUCH TALLER IN THE MIDDLE
OF IT WHEN IT'S NOT NEXT TO LOW
RISE.
SO JUST THAT SMALL
CLARIFICATION I HOPE THAT'S A
SUBJECT OF FURTHER DEBATE
GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL.
>> YOU KNOW, I I SUPPORT
MANAGING EXTERNALITIES.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN A FAN
OF LEGISLATING ACTIVE USERS ON
CERTAIN SHOPPING STREETS
DOWNTOWN.
THERE WAS A DEBATE ABOUT THIS
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO AND CITY
COUNCIL ULTIMATELY DECLINED TO
TAKE IT UP.
BUT I THINK ENFORCING ACTUAL
ACTIVE GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL
LIKE STORES, RESTAURANTS, THAT
KIND OF THING IN OTHER WORDS,
NOT BANKS AND OFFICES IS
IMPORTANT TO DO IN A VERY
LIMITED BASIS WHERE WE HAVE
SHOPPING DISTRICTS THAT ARE
SORT OF OUR ECONOMIC ENGINE.
>> I THINK APPROPRIATELY YOU
GUYS DECIDED TO DO THAT IN DC
ONE ON MAJOR CORNERS ALTHOUGH
IT JUST FRAMES DOES
NONRESIDENTIAL SO IT DOESN'T
EVEN HAVE TO BE COMMERCIAL
WHICH I THINK SHOULD BE ALSO
CLEANED UP.
BUT I I APPRECIATE THAT
DISCUSSION.
YOU DON'T WANT TO ENFORCE IT
ON, YOU KNOW, LONG STRETCHES
OF TRANSITION.
I MAY HAVE MISSED THIS IN THE
PACKET.
I HOPE THERE'S MORE DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE MAP.
I THERE ARE PLACES THAT ARE NOW
MULTIFAMILY LIKE WHERE I USED
TO LIVE IN GATTI'S LAKE WHICH
UNLESS THIS HAS BEEN CHANGE IS
STILL IS SHOWING AS LOW RISE
AND I THINK IT WOULD BE THE
WOULD BE A HUGE OPPORTUNITY FOR
YOU KNOW, IF THAT EVER
REDEVELOPED OR SOME OF THESE
OLDER URBAN COMMUNITIES
REDEVELOP THAT THEY HAD TO BE
LOW RISE BUT THAT WOULD BE I
HOPE THAT'S CONSIDERED IN THE
NEXT CLEANUP SESSION.
>> WHAT ELSE?
YEAH, I'M STILL A LITTLE
UNCLEAR ON HUBB LIKE 5TH AND
MADISON.
I THINK HUBB IS GOING PRETTY
FAR DOWN SOUTH OF WILLIAM AND
THAT'S LABELED HUB.
BEEKMAN IS NOT A HUB SO I'M A
LITTLE UNCLEAR ON THAT AND JUST
YOU KNOW, WE'D LOVE TO GET
CLARIFICATION OR ELIMINATING
THAT DISTINCTION.
>> THANKS GUYS.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS,
MR. LEONARD?
WE DO
.
CHAKA LADIES, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
MISSION AND GOOD EVENING.
>> THIS IS YOUR LATEST CALLING
FROM THE FIRST WARD.
I JUST LIKE TO REPEAT MY
QUESTION FROM EARLIER THIS
EVENING SINCE APPARENTLY A
PORTION OF THE AUDIENCE FOUND
MY COMMENT SO OBJECTIONABLE
THAT THEY FELT THE NEED TO
WRITE ABOUT I THINK THE CENTRAL
QUESTION WE SHOULD ALL BE
ASKING OURSELVES AS PART
OF THIS PROCESS IS WHAT IS THE
MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE AMOUNT
OF LAND THAT SOMEONE SHOULD BE
REQUIRED TO PAY FOR IN ORDER TO
HAVE THE PRIVILEGE OF BEING OUR
NEIGHBOR?
>> AND THEN LET'S ASK OURSELVES
IF THE ANSWER CHANGES BASED ON
WHETHER WE'RE ONLY TALKING
ABOUT PEOPLE ARE ALSO
IMPLICITLY INCLUDING SPACE FOR
CARS BECAUSE MANY PARCELS IN
THIS CITY CURRENTLY HAVE MORE
IMPERVIOUS AREA DEVOTED TO
DRIVEWAYS AND GARAGES AND
PARKING LOTS THAT THE BUILDINGS
FOR ACTUAL PEOPLE AND THAT'S
TOTALLY FINE.
I THINK IF THOSE FOLKS WANT TO
OWN DRIVEWAYS AND LARGE LAWNS I
HAVEN'T HEARD ANYONE PROPOSING
TO TAKE THAT AWAY.
I CONSIDERED THE FLIP SIDE
SHOULD PEOPLE WHO LOST OUR
PIECES OF LAND NOT HAVE THAT
OPTION OR MAYBE ARE WE SAYING
THAT THEY'RE ONLY ALLOWED TO
LIVE ALONG DANGEROUS MULTILINE
ROADS?
I THINK THIS IS THE ONE
QUESTION THAT MOST DIRECTLY
GETS AT THE HEART OF THE ISSUE
AND SHOULD BE THE CENTRAL FOCUS
AND IT'S TIME TO WRITE THE
NEWS ON IT.
>> AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR ALL
THAT YOU DO.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER HANDS WERE RAISED
NEARLY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH WITH
THAT WE'RE GOING TO CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE TO THE
LAST ITEM WHICH IS A GERMAN
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
MILLISECOND SECURITY COUNCIL
MEMBER JEWISH.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY BYE BYE
.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED